neg@ warner brothers has scored another marketing coup .  the one-two punch was started in the summer , with the release of batman forever .  trailers for ace ventura 2 were bundled with the bat , ensuring that every jim carrey fan in the free world would know about the impending sequel .  carrey went on to win raves as the riddler and the ever-wise warner chose halloween as the release date for the video ( $11 . 99 at wal-mart ) ; a mere two weeks before carrey's return in this marketwise , but misfired comedy .  ace ventura : when nature calls is a painful reminder of just how grating the rubber-faced comic can be when allowed to perform within an uncontrolled environment .  he may have been brilliant under the direction of joel schumacher , in batman forever , but , here , left to his own devices , carrey quickly wears out his welcome .  the opening sequence is by far the best--an amusing spoof of cliffhanger , with ace performing a mountain rescue of a stranded raccoon .   ( you can guess what happens to mr . paws .  hint : it sounds like splat . )  the plot quickly shifts to a temple in the himalayas , and then to not-so-darkest africa , where ace is on the case of a missing white bat .  with his hair and limbs both wildly askew , carrey flies through his routine in about thirty minutes .  the rest of the film is just more of the same .  sure , the plot's linear , and the production values solid , but where is the scripted humor to support carrey's sloppy slathering ?  writer and director steve oderkerk provides precious few set-ups .  instead , carrey just mugs away , playing for the camera even when most of it isn't funny .  the better gags have been shown in the ads , though a bit with ace emerging buck-naked from the backside of a mechanical rhino is something to see .  though an arguable improvement over the original , ace ventura : when nature calls is still a snooze for anyone over the age of ten .  the script is virtually devoid of wit .  tribal mask jokes ?  jerry lewis cameos ?  forget it .  if anything , the inexplicable presence of simon callow ( four weddings and a funeral ) and bob gunton ( the shawshank redemption ) suggests that working with carrey is the classical actor's ultimate challenge .  just how long * can * they keep a straight face ? 
pos@ jake kasdan , son of one of the best screenwriters around , breaks into filmmaking by writing and directing this hard-to-categorize detective story : part mystery , part comedy , part character study and part romance .  for the most part , kasdan manages to combine the genres successfully and create a captivating film .  daryl zero ( bill pullman ) is a modern day sherlock holmes .  the parallel is present down to his love of music ( though zero plays the guitar rather than the violin ) , and his addiction to drugs ( amphetamines , rather than morphine ) .  he even titles his cases with such sherlockian epigrams as the case of the mismatched shoelaces , the case about the man who lied about his age , or the case of the hired gun who made way way too many mistakes .  however zero's observance of the fine art of detachment , though it makes him a brilliant private investigator , makes him somewhat of a self-imposed outcast in society .  he could do nothing without the legwork of his trusty assistant dr . watson , i mean steve arlo ( ben stiller ) .  arlo is not happy with his job .  he is thrilled to be around zero's brilliance , but his bizarre behavior , and strange requests , are frustrating to the former lawyer .  and they're even more so to his girlfriend , jess ( angela featherstone ) , who is fed up that her boyfriend's boss means more to arlo than her .  this is the situation when a new case comes knocking .  gregory stark ( ryan o'neill ) hires zero to find his lost keys .  it seems that he kept a safety deposit box key on the ring , and the box apparently contains some incriminating evidence .  now , stark is being blackmailed , and needs to reclaim his key before the nightmare can end .  to solve this case , zero reluctantly crawls out of his shell .  however , this is when he is vulnerable . . . and  this time he falls for charms of a wily paramedic , gloria sullivan ( kim dickens ) , who may be involved in the blackmail scheme .  for the first time , zero has to question his own objectivity , as he finds his client less and less sympathetic .  zero effect is weakest in its obviously " wacky " scenes depicting daryl zero's odd behavior .  such scenes might be appropriate in an out-and-out satire , making zero an ace ventura-ish character .  however , there's a much meatier movie in here . . . it just takes a while to get out .  that's not to say that there's not a place for humor in this film .  in fact , some of the best scenes are ben stiller's wonderfully underplayed comic moments of absolute disgust and frustration with his employer .  however , the over-the-top scenes never quite gel with the rest of the film , and they aren't funny enough to stand on their own .  once the investigation is underway , however , zero's brilliance really begins to shine .  his lightning quick inferences are as fascinating as many of sherlock's own .  as the mystery begins to unfold , zero's deductions lead the plot in interesting directions , but never lose the viewer .  zero effect works well during its romantic scenes as well .  zero's relationship with gloria is low-key , but it hits all the right notes .  however , we are always kept distant from gloria's character .  she's given plenty of development , but we never understand what she is thinking .  perhaps that may be intentional : to place the audience in zero's zone of detachment .  but , on the whole , it is frustrating .  bill pullman , when he's not spacing out , creates a vibrant character in daryl zero .  there's one moment when zero briefly connects to the world which he has managed to detach from for many years , and it is shockingly moving . . . expressing a seriousness that heretofore was unassociated with the character , but one which fits in well .  and , although it is sometimes hard to take a detective called " zero " seriously , it is at this moment that the viewer understands the meaning behind the name .  although zero effect is a bit awkward in places , it is a strong debut for kasdan , and shows great promise . 
neg@ once upon a time jean-claude van damme was a decent action hero .  the muscles from brussels bursted into the hollywood market with mindless adventure films , boasting his spectacular martial-arts ability .  some of these excursions were fun .  but now it seems like watching a van damme movie has become a painful chore , with no rewards but the virtually guaranteed helping of mind-numbing action .  and when the action goes sour , what is there left to enjoy ?  i'll explain .  knock off is about a pair of counterfeit jeans salesmen working out of an office in hong kong .  marcus ray ( van damme ) , a babe-magnet and stylish dresser , heads up the company with an annoying weasel of a partner ( rob schneider ) .  they become part of a plot involving microbombs implanted in counterfeit jeans , seemingly by a mole in the business .  i'm going to reveal about everything in the next paragraph , so if you want a review devoid of spoilers , skip onto the next one .  i'm not quite sure who gives a crap , but i'll issue a warning anyhow .  tommy is really working with the cia .  his boss ( a very hammy and flat paul sorvino ) is the mole , and he wants to cause carnage with these tiny but immensely powerful super weapons .  he even stoops so low to put them into children's toys .  if you thought this plot outline sounded intriguing , then you probably will enjoy knock off .  if you think that this ridiculous set-up couldn't even fill five minutes of screen time without causing you to roll over laughing , this might not be your cup of tea .  knock off sucks .  it stoops to ridiculous levels that most individuals could only conjure up in horrific nightmares .  it amazes me how far these producers will go to sell something , simply because van damme is the star .  the plot is pathetic garbage strung together by inane action sequences that will baffle your mind , the performances are so wooden you could use them to row a canoe , and the action itself is an absolute catastrophe .  director tsui hark ( who teamed with van damme in the superior , but still lame-brained double team ) is at the helm , and he would rather attempt to dazzle us with fantastic camera angles than engage us with the plot .  i suppose i enjoyed some of the camera work , but the incessant desperation of it all made me rather nauseous .  the picture freezes in the middle of an action sequence , speeds are altered consistently , and the camera tricks mostly apply to traveling up gun barrels as the weapons are fired .  it all sounds very cool .  trust me , it isn't .  as much as it scars me to say this ( har , har ) , van damme is terrible .  sure , he does lots of fancy kickboxing moves and dodges giant crates with the greatest of ease .  he looks like he's doing a bad impersonation of jackie chan , and his performance is stiff and tired .  i hate to say it , but perhaps it's time for mr . van damme to give up his day job .  it's really a test of endurance watching knock off .  i suppose there's some enjoyment derived from schneider's character , who is extremely annoying , but provides the film's better moments .  and what is the beautiful lela rochon doing in this movie ?  hopefully she grabbed her paycheck and then fled the premises like an olympic sprinter .  knock off doesn't even stand strong as a mindless but entertaining action film , like a handful of van damme's others .  no , this movie is an embarrassment to the entire action genre of modern filmmaking .  and considering how low hollywood has stooped as of late in that department , that is certainly not saying much .  note to self : avoid universal soldier 2 : the return upon release in august ? 99 . 
pos@  " you've got mail " is the very definition of a " cute " movie .  it's got cute stars , a cute story-line , and even cute pets .  despite this over-whelming cuteness ( or maybe because of it ) , i loved " you've got mail " .  i know , i know .  i'm supposed to be a film critic .  i'm not supposed to love transparent and formula pictures like this .  but darn it , somewhere along the way , " you've got mail " reeled me in , hook , line , and sinker .  the movie stars tom hanks and meg ryan as two somewhat unhappy new yorkers who meet in an aol online chat room and quickly become close friends , without ever knowing each others identity .  as the movie progresses , though , they begin to discover that they have a lot in common with each other .  meanwhile , in " real-life " , they are bitter competitors .  she owns a quaint little children's bookstore , he owns one of those gigantic super-bookstores that offer impersonal service and discount prices .  while his store threatens to run her store out of business , their online relationship grows stronger .   " you've got mail " is as artificial as movies come .  everything is nice and happy and by the end , all the characters have gotten exactly what they wanted out of life .  there are no real conflicts , no major disappointments , no unresolved issues .  nevertheless , i quite enjoyed it .  in fact , i can't remember the last time i had such a good time at the movies .  i think sometimes you have to be able to watch a movie and just get drawn into it .  the fact that stars hank and ryan are at the top of their game does not hurt either .  in particular , hanks is at his best here , turning his " charm-meter " up to 11 .  everytime he was on screen , he had my full attention .  and despite the fact that he was driving little bookstores out of business , i was rooting for him .  it was good to see hanks back doing what he does best : playing the affable everyman .   " you've got mail " certainly won't be winning any awards , but as an exercise in pure entertainment , it's as good as it gets . 
neg@ well lets see . . . i'm  not quite sure how to review this film , based on its laughter factor .  well yeah i can , it's not funny .  ok so i laughed one time which warranted the 1/2 star , but other than that i sat in my seat wondering when this pos would be over , ( which at a running time of 107 minutes seemed like forever ! ) .  in fact , this could be the un-funniest movie i've seen in a long time , if not the un-funniest .  let me be the first to say " ready to rumble " is a huge disappointment .  long time wrestling lovers ( david and scott ) dream of making it to the wcw , and watching jimmy king wrestle .  that is their hero of course , whom is kicked out of the wcw .  well here is where the plot thickens ( lol ) : the two wish to rescue the king , and put him back into the wcw but not that easily , because they are being tampered with by many people who are out to get them , while david's father wants him to become a police officer , and scott is a loser who has to with the help of david clean out johnny on the spots .  what a plot eh ?   " ready to rumble " is one of those films that tries to be funny , but sadly fails miserably , everything in the film is imcomprehinsable , and even the trailer wasn't funny .  the actors are dull , the script awful , and the plot which there isn't much of . . . . really  annoying .  i'm not quite sure how great actors like these , and very funny actors too , are given such a lame script , and directed in such a childish manner , that i wonder if hollywood is ever gonna make good films these days .  this review isn't going to be very long because of the fact that there isn't much going for the film , if anything at all .  only one big laugh is in the film , which isn't all that hilarious .  i sat in my chair wondering with this 107 ( ! ! ! ! ! )  minute " comedy " was going to be over , and sadly it went on forever .  i'm not sure if anything could have saved this film from being such a total waste , but believe me you , it is .  reviewed by brandon herring 4/29/00 for more reviews please visit movie review central at http : //www . geocities . com/moviefan983/moviereviewcentral . html 
pos@ one of the last entries in the long-running carry on series , carry on behind is very similar to carry on camping in that it involves a group of holidaymakers descending on a 'caravan' site .  professors anna vrooshka ( elke sommer ) and roland crump ( kenneth williams ) and a group of archaeology students stay in the caravan site owned by major leep ( kenneth connor ) so that they can explore the nearby roman settlement remains .  anna has a little trouble understanding english and sometimes people get the wrong end of the stick : - for instance , when anna is asking for 'scrubbers for dirty caravan' , she means that she wants a scrubbing brush to clean the caravan !  arthur upmore ( bernard bresslaw ) and his wife linda ( patsy rowlands ) take her mother daphne barnes ( joan sims ) and her minah bird on holiday with them .  mother-in-law jokes prevail .  furthermore , the trouble that joe and norma baxter ( ian lavender and adrienne posta ) have with their large irish greyhound allows for some comical moments between the two families .  fred ramsden ( windsor davies ) and ernie bragg ( jack douglas ) leave their wives ( liz fraser and patricia franklin ) behind for a fishing holiday .  however , they have more in mind than fishing when they catch sight of two young girls , sandra ( carol hawkins ) and carol ( sherrie hewson ) .  the story involves the disruption caused by the archaeological professors of the day-to-day running of the camp , the search for the minah bid and greyhound , the major , fred and ernie's desperate need of a woman , a misunderstanding leading to a striptease at the caravan park's pub , and a shock in store for daphne .  the partnership between sommer and williams is very effective and amusing .  this is what binds the movie together .  joan sims stands out as the demanding mother-in-law , bernard bresslaw and patsy rowlands work well together as husband and wife , and carol hawkins and sherrie hewson are a welcome addition to the cast .  on the other hand , there are low-key performances from kenneth connor and peter butterworth as barnes the handyman , and there are very poor performances by windsor davies and jack douglas who spend far too much time on the screen !  even though there is no real plot to speak of and the jokes are getting bluer due to the new scriptwriter dave freeman , there are enough truly comical moments and bright and breezy performances to lift this carry on above many of its predecessors .  although the regular cast is depleted , the ones that remain show that they can still make a good carry on film .  a relative flop at the cinema , this movie deserves a lot more recognition . 
neg@  " spawn " features good guys , bad guys , lots of fighting , bloody violence , a leather-clad machine gun chick , gooey , self-healing bullet holes , scatological humor and a man-eating monster .  it not only appears to have been tailor made for a swarm of 12- and 13-year-old boys , it appears to have been made by them .  in a classic example of telling and not showing , " spawn " opens with a truckload of mumbo jumbo about forces of darkness , forces of light and how " men are the ones who create evil on earth . "  so much for a message .  the movie then lurches forward into the plight of al simmons ( michael jai white ) , a government assassin/operative who is murdered by diabolical boss jason wynn ( martin sheen , who plays all of his scenes like an oscar clip ) while on a top secret mission in a north korean biological weapons plant .  simmons goes to hell and back , after making a deal with satan himself -- if he agrees to command the devil's army to overtake the world , he'll be allowed to return to earth to see his wife wanda ( underused theresa randle ) and little girl cyan ( sydni beaudoin ) .  of course , seeing as how five years has passed , wanda has fallen for -- and married -- simmons' partner ( d . b .  sweeney ) .  his , uh , shoulder to cry on comes in the form of clown ( john leguizamo ) , a disgustingly disproportioned minion of satan's .  clown manipulates simmons , now in superhuman spawn form , into a stand off with wynn .  wynn , who thinks he is in league with the double-dealing clown , recognizes spawn as a threat and undergoes an operation where a bomb is placed on his heart -- when it stops beating , major cities around the world will detonate , causing the leak of a disease that " makes the ebola virus look like a skin rash . "  phew . got all that ?  it would be easy to dismiss " spawn " as just another one of those heavy-on-fx , short-on-substance action pics , but it doesn't even work on that level .  the computer-generated sequences are often and plenty , and the problem is that they look too computer-generated .  the several scenes set in hell present a devil that looks and acts like a video game graphic -- with the movie's healthy budget you'd think they could have afforded to make his mouth move when he talks .  other elements of the movie are so-so ; spawn's enormous red , flowing cape is a wonderful sight , but it's too obvious when he's being played by a costumed actor or an image .  in movies like " contact , " the special effects serve the story .  in " spawn , " they are the story .  and spawn himself isn't even an interesting character .  the film's reliance on razzle-dazzle would be acceptable if we were given somebody to root for , but both simmons and his funky alter-ego are completely underdeveloped .  what we need is a batman , a luke skywalker .  even watching the adventures of kleenex man would be more interesting than spawn .  poor leguizamo .  he starred in february's " the pest , " a movie that i still think is the year's worst so far , although this one does give it a run for its money .  as clown , he overacts to the extreme , never missing an opportunity for a poor-taste punchline .  leguizamo farts green mist , munches a pizza slice covered with maggots and even dons a mini-skirt and performs a cheerleader routine , all before turning into a giant grey demon .  the guy was brilliant in " to wong foo , thanks for everything !  julie newmar . "  what is he doing wasting his talent in this and " the pest " ?  i'm one of the few people that liked " batman & robin , " this summer's other big-budget comic book film .  yet after catching this movie and making the inevitable comparison , i can only hope people will change their minds and think of " batman " as the superior adaptation .  there's a compelling story somewhere in " spawn " -- including strong religious overtones and the debut of the first african-american superhero ever -- but it's just not found anywhere near here .  as it is , " spawn " is just awful -- it stinks worse than a dead trout . 
pos@ studio expectations must not have been high for " great expectations " -- the film's release date was pushed from late december to late january at what appeared to be the last minute , therefore putting any academy awards chances it has off until this time in 1999 .  it's actually a smart move , because while this updated take on the charles dickens tale isn't quite oscar fodder , it * is * strong enough to be distinguished from the cinematic dumping ground that usually makes up the first five or six weeks of any given year .   " great expectations " also demonstrates how to modernize a classic story right , especially after the excruciatingly wretched excesses of baz luhrmann's " william shakespeare's romeo + juliet . "   " great expectations " opens somewhere in 1970s florida ( the original story is set in 19th-century england ) , as eight-year-old finn ( jeremy james kissner ) meets a trio of people who will have a profound effect on his life in the future .  there's icy , 11-year-old estella ( raquel beaudene ) , a pseudo-playmate of finn's ; ms . dinsmoor ( anne bancroft ) , estella's auntie who's quite off-kilter over a past romance that never took off ; and a mysterious prisoner ( robert de niro ) whom finn saves the life of .  finn , who lives with his sister's affable boyfriend ( lone star's chris cooper ) , fancies himself an aspiring artist , and proves his prowess by whipping up an unusual portrait of estella using only ms . dinsmoor's lipstick , eyebrow pencil and the wallpaper from her dilapidating mansion .  flash forward into the '90s ( after a brief stop in the '80s ) , and finn ( now played by ethan hawke ) , despondent over a strange hot-and-cold relationship with the elusive estella ( gwyneth paltrow ) , receives quite a bit of money from an unknown benefactor ; it's enough cash to send him to new york to focus on a career in art .  there , finn seems to gain everything he could ever want -- wealth , prestige and a high place in the glamorous art world .  when estella resurfaces -- albeit with an aloof fianc ? ( hank azaria ) -- finn also sees the chance to renew their mutual attraction .  but she's not the only ghost from finn's past that's going to be paying him a visit .  comparisons with the afore-mentioned " romeo + juliet " seem inevitable since these films are the only ones in recent memory to plop classic drama into a current setting .   " great expectations " is a much better venture , though , because it treats its source with even-handed respect , where " romeo " was never quite sure whether to be a spoof , a homage or both .  the movie is a visual banquet thanks to emmanuel lubezki's sexy cinematography ; notably , he captures a revisited fountain kiss between the two leads with a luscious , erotic charge that's steamier than the film's ( surprisingly muted ) love scenes .  the eclectic rock soundtrack compliments the on-screen action beautifully , especially new songs by tori amos , mono and duncan sheik .  acting credits are first-rate , often hiding the screenplay's occasional slip-ups .  hawke is sincere and solid as a leading man ( something we also learned from " gattaca " ) , and his finn is quite a likeable guy .  paltrow's estella , on the other hand , is rather underdeveloped .  while the actress is at her icily seductive best , we're not told very much about her character , and as a result , it's often hard to understand why finn would appreciate her beyond a physical level ( but , oh , * what * a physical level ) ; sometimes , we root for finn although we don't quite understand why she's fueling his fire .  robert de niro is nice and sophisticated in the benevolent kind of role he rarely gets to play ; on the other end of the acting spectrum is bancroft , a macabre , throaty delight who mambos and sucks down cigarettes with an eerie enthusiasm that would make norma desmond jealous .  alfonso cuaron's visually elegant direction helps to distract from the dry moments that pop up more frequently around the movie's climax .  another problem is predictability ; you can guess your way through the plot even if you aren't familiar with the story .  despite its script flaws , though , " great expectations " is undeniably romantic without being corny or gloppy .  and frankly , it's nice to see a film that embraces softened sensuality other than explicit sexuality .  perhaps that renovated release date , awfully close to valentine's day , will end up helping " great expectations " ' seemingly average box office chances after all . 
neg@ you'd think that after awhile hollywood would stop trying to make movies out of video games .  it hasn't worked so far .   " street fighter ? "   " super mario brothers ? "   " wing commander ? "   " mortal kombat ? "  not a watchable film in the bunch .  still i held out some hope for " tomb raider . "  after all , the game's premise is heavily influenced by the indiana jones trilogy and all the mummy movies , so there are cinematic elements imbedded in the concept .  however , despite the potential of the project , " tomb raider " proves to be yet another bomb .  the plot is a convoluted accumulation of nonsense probably borrowed from a dozen bad movies .  there's a once-ever-5000-years alignment of planets coming up , and the illuminati have to find both halves of an ancient triangle that controls time in order to take over the world .  of course , the ancient folks who divided the triangle buried the halves in tombs on opposite sides of the world .  our heroine , lady lara croft ( angelina jolie ) , finds the key that opens the tombs in relics that her dead father ( jon voight ) dug up .  she figures that if she gets the triangle , she can bring her dad back from the dead .  of course , no one was expecting much of a plot from this movie anyway .  in both video games and action movies , the plot is just an excuse for the action sequences .  however , the action in " tomb raider " shows little style or originality .  there's lots of shooting and some kung fu fightin' , but none of it progresses beyond the level of a cheap direct-to-cable flick .  the other goofy archeologist flick of the summer , " the mummy returns , " was much better ; it had its flaws , but its action was creative and large-scale .  since winning her academy award for " girl , interrupted , " jolie hasn't taken any projects that would display her acting talents .   " tomb raider " seems to be more interested in displaying her breasts ; so much attention is drawn to them that it's a shame there's no oscar for best performance by a wonderbra .  while we don't see much of her acting ability ( with the exception of a wonderful upper-crust british accent ) , we do get a hint of jolie's less savory side .  considering the rumors of incest that hang over jolie and her supposed obsession with death , having lara be obsessed with resurrecting her dead father ( and uninterested in any of the living males around her ) seems a poor choice .  having jolie's real life father jon voight play the dead dad makes it even creepier .  i haven't decided what to make of director simon west yet .  his first feature was the star-studded disaster " con air , " but my opinion of him improved with " the general's daughter , " which was thick with sultry atmosphere .  now this train wreck .  i hope he improves again because his next project is the big screen version of the cult tv series " the prisoner . "  hollywood has already screwed up " the avengers , " and " the prisoner " represents a chance for redemption .   ( by the way , speaking of british tv , " red dwarf " fans should look for chris " rimmer " barrie in his first major film role ) . 
pos@  " the end of the affair " is a dark and moody romantic period piece , that neil jordan exquisitely writes and directs .  although it's slow and sometimes confusing to follow , it still manages to give audiences a moving experience .  based on graham greene's novel of the same name , the film mainly follows 3 characters .  there's maurice bendrix ( ralph fiennes ) who has an affair with henry mile's ( stephen rea ) wife sarah ( julianne moore ) .  sarah finds henry to be a bore , because well , he's just a normal guy .  it's all work and no play with him .  while maurice on the other hand falls madly in love with sarah , and would do anything for her .  unfortunately the two break up .  this is all witnessed in a serious of flashbacks , so that leads us to the present .  it's a few years later , and they both still think of each other , so maurice hires a private detective ( ian hart ) to see what sarah is up too .  while this may sound straight forward it's not .  it's a deep dark tale of the jealousy that lies in the two men , unhappiness , and the ever lasting love .  all this may sound like a drag , but it really captures your interest .  with great performances by ralph fiennes ( doing another english patient type of film , only this movie is better ) and julianna moore who definitely deserves an oscar because out of all 5 films she did in 1999 , i believe this was the role , she had the most passion for , and you can see why .  the story was also well written thanks to neil jordan .  even though i didn't read the book , there's no doubt in mind that it was just as moving and descriptive .  what's so moving about it you ask ?  the tragedy of it all .  it's not the typical romance , in which a guy finds a girl , they fall in love and all is well , this is more complicated and depressing .  it really shows the complexity of a relationship , because nothing is ever perfect .  everyone feels a different way and that is what tears us to pieces .  back to neil jordan's script , it wasn't only red roses .  there were times when i felt it too be a little slow , but most romances are .  it also tended to be a bit confusing , especially at the start .  it keep jumping around from past to present , so it obviously took awhile to get a grasp of things .  also a notable was the superb direction by neil jordan .  i'd have to say this is his finest achievement to date , because quite frankly i've never really found his work to be up to par .  it just never did anything for me , until now .  when it ends , it leaves viewers a little saddened , but provoked nonetheless .  this is definitely one of the best films of 99 , and had some of the best acting , most notably by moore .  not for all movie goers , but for those who are film buffs and want something of value . 
neg@ i wish i could accurately describe the theme music for part 3 .  the best way i can put it is that it's funky .  i know this is an odd question , but remember the opening music of " police academy 4 : citizens on patrol " , when steve guttenberg and michael winslow perform the title song " citizens on patrol " during the opening credits ?  it's just like that .  anyway , part 3 takes place a day after the events of part 2 ( so technically still 1985 ) .  this time , a group of horny teens ( who also bring along two aging hippie potheads for some reason ) head up to a cabin on crystal lake for a weekend of sex and weed .  it turns out that one of the teens had been attacked by jason earlier in her life ( which must have been between parts 1 and 2 ) so why she has returned to crystal lake one day after a new batch of murders is beyond me .  she's the lone survivor this time .  part 3 was originally shown in theaters in 3-d , and from what i can tell from the video , it looks as though they may have been fairly decent effects .  jason had long , wild hair when he was unmasked in part 2 . now , one day later he's completely bald .  also , it being one day later , it can't be friday the 13th now can it ?  oh well .  steve miner is the only director who helmed more than one film in the series .  [r] 
pos@ 118 minutes ; not rated ( though i suspect it would be rated pg for adult themes and language )  mamoru oshii is a name that probably isn't very well-known to most american audiences , but perhaps it should be .  oshii was the director of last year's best-known japanese animated film import , _ghost in the shell_ , and is known among fans of japanese animation , or anime , for making films with a deep philosophical bent .  one of these films was the first theatrical venture for the patlabor animated series .  in its many incarnations--graphic novels ( " manga " ) , two different runs of made-for-video episodes ( original animation videos , or oavs for short ) , and a television series running to nearly fifty episodes--patlabor has proven to be one of the most popular series ever in japan .  set in the very near future ( though it was a somewhat farther away near future when the series was first conceived ) , this atypical giant robot anime features the characters , rather than the machinery , as the primary focus .  as a whole , patlabor is the story of an exciting time for japan .  as the prologue to each episode of the television series explains , giant industrial robots , known as " labors " ( an interesting play on words , considering that " robot " is derived from the czech word for labor ) , have come into widespread use in japan toward the close of the twentieth century .  with the rise of labors , however , has come a new menace--labor crime .  this led to the creation of the two special vehicle divisions , using patrol labors to fight labor crime .  the patlabor story centers around the second special vehicle division , sv2 , who , through no fault of their own , have acquired a bad reputation for destructiveness .  sometimes utterly hilarious , sometimes almost deadly serious , the patlabor series explores the interpersonal relationships of the special vehicle crewmembers , and also looks at the effects of technology on modern life .  those who are unfamiliar with the patlabor story and characters may find themselves slightly confused coming into the movie , although there is ample background exposition provided for new viewers .  the story , as has much of patlabor before , centers around the controversial babylon project , a gigantic seawall that will , on its completion , allow the reclamation of thousands of square miles of land from tokyo bay .  this project has been an almost constant target of environmentalist terrorists , most notably the house of sea organization .  however , the threat in this case comes not from any terrorist , but from someone who is already dead . . .  shinohara heavy industries , the premier labor manufacturer in japan ( if not the whole world ) , has just come out with a new operating system that increases labors' movement speed and efficiency by 30% .  this hyper operating system , hos for short , has very quickly been installed into well over 90% of the nation's labors . . . including the patrol labors of sv2 .  since that installation , dozens of labors , including a heavily-armed military model , have begun to go on berzerk rampages for no apparent reason . . . and the only factor they all had in common was that they were all running under the new hos .   ( some wags have compared this to windows 95 . )  it's up to asuma shinohara , labor command officer with sv2 and the son of the president of shinohara heavy industries , to find the source of these problems before more labors--including sv2's own--fall victim to them , and before hos drags his father's company down with it .  as was the case with _ghost in the shell_ , if you just want a no-brainer actionfest , this might not be the movie for you .  _patlabor : the movie_ is more of a psychological thriller , a technological suspense drama .  it is closer , perhaps , to a chrichton novel than to an action movie ( crichton novels that have been made _into_ action movies notwithstanding ) .  there are long , thoughtful montages of dialogueless footage as two investigators make their way through slums and derelict housing in old quarters of tokyo , similar to sequences from _ghost in the shell_ .  this movie is fraught with symbolism--in fact a large part of it is based on christian symbolism .  patlabor's near-future setting is , aside from the giant robots tromping around , very similar to our own present day .  the film uses this setting to make its central point : is progress moving too fast for humans to keep up ?  are history and culture falling by the wayside like the old buildings that are being torn down and replaced with new ?  this is a question just as applicable to today as it is to patlabor's alternate-1999 setting .  as far as the technical aspects of the film go ( referring to the subtitled version , as that's the only one i've seen ) , the film transfer is clear , almost phenomenally so .  the animation quality is incredible , though the character design is different from what most patlabor fans will be used to .  the oavs and tv series were more cheerful , better-suited to humor ; the movie , however , makes everyone look a great deal less cute , and emphasizes that this is going to be , for the most part , a deadly serious storyline .  as far as cinematography goes , there are many interesting moments in _patlabor : the movie_ .  i don't think i can recall ever seeing a fish-eye perspective used in any other animated film ( save for _ghost in the shell_ , another oshii film ) , or indeed , in many other movies at all .  the cinematography is well-suited to the storyline , emphasizing what it needs to , though a couple of scenes ( where characters' features are exaggerated in anger ) may seem slightly strange to western audiences .  the audio track of _patlabor : the movie_ is in glorious hi-fi stereo , and should be used to demonstrate home theater systems--it _is_ that good .  even without headphones , sounds from either side of the screen can be clearly heard to _come_ from that side .  giant robot footsteps are deep and booming .  the sometimes-understated , sometimes-blaring score is crisp and clear , and always right on the mark , enhancing the moods created by the animated scenery .  as far as the subtitles go , i have to say that they're among the most easily-readable subtitles i've ever seen for _anything_ .  large enough that they don't strain the eyes , but small enough not to conceal too much of the screen .  although it does have several action sequences in it , most notably the climactic conclusion , _patlabor_ is foremost not an action movie .  although it is a superbly-realized film , it relies in large part upon prior familiarity with some of the characters to carry the story , and that could detract from some people's enjoyment .  my . 
neg@ it seemed like the perfect concept .  what better for the farrelly brothers , famous for writing and directing comedies with offensive subject matter , than to make a movie about a guy with a split personality ?  it's exactly the sort of thing the brothers relish : poking fun at something serious ( in this case mental illness ) , throwing all care to the wind to get a laugh .  jim carrey's signed on too ?  even better .  the national alliance for the mentally ill even helped out by levying complaints against the brothers' new film before its opening , claiming it was misrepresenting the condition of split personality , labeling it incorrectly as " schizophrenia , " and so forth .  such a protest seemed like just the sort of thing that would , of course , only add more fuel to the farrelly brothers' fire , proving that some people just couldn't take a joke , and that the farrellys would be helping the more enlightened viewers to yet another dose of their brilliantly subversive comedy .  yes , it all seemed perfect , but one thing went wrong : their movie isn't funny .  it's not for lack of trying .  the farrellys utilize in " me , myself & irene " their most high-concept premise ever : carrey plays charlie baileygaites , a man who after being dumped by his wife for a midget limo driver , decides to bury all his aggressive feelings deep down inside and never release them .  this , of course , means all his neighbors exploit his entirely too-forgiving nature , making his job as a rhode island state trooper increasingly difficult .  soon enough , charlie's repressed aggression manifests itself into a second , independent personality named hank , a deep-voiced , boorish ogre unafraid of taking the assertive actions his predecessor had been unable to muster .  this guy isn't above crashing a car through the wall of the barber shop in which he's been insulted , or holding a little girl's head underwater because she refused to stop jump-roping in the street .  then things start getting lost in the most complicated plot the farrellys have ever attempted , and the film runs off its tracks .  some have suggested that this isn't a problem , because the farrelly brothers' brand of humor doesn't require plot to work .  they're wrong , of course : plot was greatly instrumental in building up the kind of rollicking comic energy that infused the farrellys' last effort , 1996's " there's something about mary . "   ( 1999's " outside providence " was technically an earlier project . )  the brothers' earlier film wasn't funny merely because it contained outrageous gags ( despite what some newsmagazine articles would have you believe ) , but rather because its most outrageous gags were entirely unexpected .  in " mary , " the farrellys managed several times to pull off a neat sleight-of-hand trick : they'd have you thinking the story was going one way , then reveal its real direction in delightfully surprising fashion .   " me , myself & irene , " by contrast , seems to have been made by folks who looked at " mary " and saw only the surface grossness , missing all of the subtle machinations that really made it work .  having been produced by the same guys who made " mary , " " irene " seems like an even bigger disappointment .  the brothers pile on the offensive humor , taking shots at race , midgets , albinos , mental illness , and all manner of bathroom jokes .  but they haven't come up with a way to make any of it fresh ; most of " me , myself & irene " comes off as rote , by-the-numbers , adolescent comedy .  the plot , with carrey forced to drive alleged fugitive irene p . waters ( renee zellweger ) , who's in more trouble than anyone knows , back to new york , has an ending that's entirely predictable from the get-go .   ( think charlie and irene will fall in love ?  yeah , me too . )  the farrellys then introduce scores of different characters , and none of them ever manage to do anything you haven't already expected them to do , no matter how outrageous their actions might be .  compared to the curveballs the farrellys are used to throwing , this stuff is almost entirely soft-tossed , presenting an obvious problem : when gross-out humor loses its shock value , it's no longer funny , merely gross .  the jokes that do work are milked over and over until their effectiveness runs dry .  take , for example , the subplot involving charlie's three black sons ( anthony anderson , mongo brownlee , jerod mixon ) .  the incongruity of it all is funny for a while , with three burly black men discussing higher math in ghetto language and white-bread carrey mouthing said language with an entirely too-pleasant smile on his face .  but by the end of the film , they're still doing the same schitck ; it hasn't been elevated to another , funnier level , and it hasn't been dropped either .  that's too bad , because it ceases to be amusing about halfway through .   " me , myself & irene " reeks of wasted opportunities .  there ought to be more focus on how other people react to charlie's new personality , and on how charlie deals with the consequences of hank's actions .  this doesn't really happen ; nearly every supporting character learns about charlie's condition early on , so they don't have any opportunity to be surprised by it .  the film throws what looks like a patented farrelly curve in a scene towards the midway point ( involving an albino companion charlie and irene pick up called , appropriately , " whitey " ) , but the script doesn't go anywhere with it , instead leaving the thread twisting in the wind before awkwardly tying it up during the climax .  jim carrey is a gifted comedian , both physically and vocally , but he's left with nothing much to do here except contort himself in a manner similar to steve martin in " all of me . "  it's a great showcase of flexibility and split-second role-shifting , but none of it is terribly funny .  carrey doesn't pull any stunts we don't expect him to pull , and the farrellys' script doesn't give him anything else to pull : the situations in which he must perform the role-shifting aren't set up in any meaningful way .  perhaps carrey can take solace in the fact that his supporting actors fare no better .  zellweger's irene is not a strong female lead ; mary in " mary " may have been part adolescent fantasy , but she was also intelligent and strong-willed .  irene is nothing in particular , as the film never makes clear whether she's ditzy , clever , or neither .  as such , she gives us nothing to latch onto as the only " sane " person in the film .  chris cooper is stuck playing exactly one note as a corrupt fbi agent , and his character is entirely too straight-laced for a movie like this .  he , like the others , does absolutely nothing unexpected .  after viewing the shapeless mess that " me , myself & irene " eventually dissolved into , i was stuck wondering whether or not the farrellys had outsmarted themselves .  maybe their kind of comedy can only work for so long until audiences get wise to it and stop being shocked .  but i don't believe it -- good filmmakers find ways of surprising their audiences even after people have grown attuned to their style .  if the farrellys are indeed good , smart filmmakers ( and i still think they are ) , they'll rebound just fine .  even after that happens , though , i'll still consider " me , myself & irene " to be a high-caliber misfire . 
pos@ with many big-budget science fiction films , great ideas are often wasted by bad scripts , cheesy plot twists , and , terrible acting .  the fifth element , the abyss , and godzilla had great concepts squandered by bad acting , writing , or both .  at first glance , the matrix , larry & andy wachowski's sci-fi/kung-fu/shoot-em-up spectacular , looks like a prime candidate to join the list of high-concept bad movies , especially with dopey keanu reeves in the leading role .  but despite high levels of cheese and gaudy dialogue , the matrix works .  it's an uncanny blend of action and surreal fantasy that borrows from dozens of other films ( most obviously the terminator films , star wars , and total recall ) , but remains refreshingly original and interesting throughout .  reeves plays neo , a computer hacker who stumbles into an initially bewildering set of encounters with " trinity " ( carrie-anne moss ) , a rival hacker who has supernatural powers and stunning good looks , a unseen , omniscient cult figure known as " morpheus " ( lawrence fishburne ) , and a trio of creepy men in dark suits who act like irs agents from hell .  neo quickly learns that the world he has known all his life is not what it seems .  moreover , he discovers that the grim , bleak world he is introduced to has been waiting for him to save it .  neo is reluctant to assume the role of messiah , with grave doubts that he is actually " the one " prophesized to come and save the world .  reluctant or not , what follows is a mix of hong kong-style slow-motion shootouts , surreal dream sequences , high speed chases , and comic book kung-fu fights .  the film also raises interesting philosophical questions about reality .  how exactly do you know what is real and what is in your mind ?  and if the real world were much harsher and grim than a fantasy one you were living in , would you want to face the true world or continue to live in a more comfortable illusion ?  unfortunately , the matrix doesn't provide many answers to the questions it raises , but at least it puts some ideas behind all the explosions , shoot-outs , and flying roundhouse kicks .  perhaps stealing the entire show in the matrix is australian actor hugo weaving , who plays agent smith , the leader of the creepy agents in sunglasses and suits who seem capable of being anywhere and doing anything to stop neo and friends from destabilizing the matrix .  weaving's stony appearance , deadpan voice , and chilling comments put a grim human face on the haunting , evil technological force that controls the matrix .  like robert patrick as the shapeshifting t-1000 terminator in terminator 2 : judgement day , weaving is more frightening than any monstrous alien or homicidal robot because , despite his power and seeming invincibility , he looks ordinary , even scrawny .  weaving embodies his role with a memorably chilling presence .  the film features some truly breathtaking special effects and stylish cinematography .  it seems to be deliberately kitchy , with stylized fight sequences directed by hong kong stunt specialist wo ping that reportedly required months of martial arts training by the actors .  in a few scenes , the posing and posturing is unintentionally funny .  just seeing keanu reeves engaging in serious kung fu is a bit jarring .  however , with the comic-book style and tone of the film , you can sustain willing disbelief long enough to enjoy the ride without losing patience .  the matrix isn't a classic .  its open-ended and confusing conclusion raises more questions than it answers .  it fails to resolve many of its own plot twists and philosophical questions .  it also relies on some conventional sentimentality to save the hero - the kind of shmaltzy feel-good goo that most of the film avoids .  reportedly , the producers have high hopes for the film being the first in a trilogy and have already begun work on the story for the sequel .  unfortunately , audiences deserve a little more than a vague sense that the story will continue in the future .  the matrix is an fun , enjoyable diversion , like a big puff of cotton candy at a carnival .  just don't be surprised half an hour later when you still feel a little hungry . 
neg@ i still can't figure out why people went in droves to see this movie .  now before you go assuming i'm some sort of high brow snob , who can't appreciate a little dumb humor , let me say that i love cheap humor .  i thought there's something about mary was one of the funniest films that i have ever seen and it was certainly one of the best films of 1998 .  low brow adolescent humor can be a lot of fun , the problem with the waterboy is that it is just low brow and adolescent , there is no humor component .  i wanted to like the waterboy , i really did .  i think i only laughed maybe 2 or 3 times throughout the entire movie .  actually , i smiled a couple of more times on top of that .  not a great record for a 90-minute film .  the problem with the waterboy is the same as most other adam sandler movies .  those responsible for this mess seem to think that the sheer fact that sandler walks around using a goofy voice and playing dumb the entire movie is a substitute for actual funny material .  nothing could be further from the truth , as matter of fact , sandler's idiot voice started to get on my nerves at points in this film .  it's really a shame too , because this film had the potential to be very funny .  i personally believe that sandler is probably a very talented comedian , it's just that so far he hasn't been able to find the right film to showcase his talents .  if his only talent is making goofy voices and playing morons , my guess is that his career in the movies will go down the same road as the vast majority of the former stars of saturday night live .  most of whom are now happily no longer in the entertainment industry .  sandler plays a 31-year-old , somewhat mentally challenged , waterboy for a college football team .  the team's somewhat mentally disturbed coach ( henry winkler ) realizes that his waterboy has a great deal of pent-up rage , which , if harnessed properly , would make him a force to be reckoned with on the football field .  you can figure out the rest from here .  sandler joins the team and this once lowly waterboy becomes a football star .  as i said , the film had a great deal of potential .  the idea was a decent one , but the main potential of this movie is a result of the cast .  all of whom are very good , just hamstrung by really , really , lousy material .  even sandler , annoying goofy voice and all , has enough charisma and natural comedic ability to overcome some of his bad material .  even as unfunny as his character is , i still found myself rooting for him throughout the film .  but it is the supporting cast that i feel most badly about .  if their material had been just a bit better , this film could have been such a funny movie .  fairuza balk plays sandler's leather-wearing biker-chick love interest and does a great job playing sleazy and sexy at the same time .  winkler is great as the coach who uses a " coaching for dummies " -style book to help him get through games .  the real standout though , is kathy bates .  even with some of the worst material of her career to deal with , she is still a treat to watch in her role as sandler's overprotective and overbearing mama .  even with the performances of bates and winkler , there is absolutely no way i would recommend this movie .  although i get the distinct impression that without them , this film would have ranked in negative numbers for me .  which is sad , because i can't really put my finger on a particular element of the movie and single it out as the cause of the disaster that it became .  it's obvious that those involved , specifically the actors , tried very hard to make what they thought was going to be a funny movie .  it's just too bad that 99 percent of all of the jokes fell flat . 
pos@ what is a scary movie anyhow ?  is it a movie where a person gets ripped to shreds ?  is it where a person is being chased by some damned teenager who wants revenge ?  possibly its some guy with a hook who wants to know what you did last summer .  what ever happened to horror movies , where the horror was in the atmosphere , and in the characters .  movies like " halloween " and " psycho " which revolutionized horror genre forever , but wait in 1973 came a movie based on the bestselling book by william peter blatty , entitled " the exorcist " , the movie opened to rave reviews , and scared audiences to death , now in the year 2000 " the exorcist " comes back to the big screen in a version you've never seen complete with six channel digital surround sound , and fifteen minutes of new footage never before seen as long as a new ending .  chris mcniell is an actress living in georgetown washington with her twelve year old daughter regan .  while working on a new film , chris still stays close to regan , but starts to wonder why her bed shakes at night , and why regan starts to have convulsions all of a sudden .  when chris finds out that regan is possessed by a demon , she shuns at the fact of it , but considers getting a priest to help her daughter .  father karras ( jason miller ) is the man they bring in , his mother has just died , and still in mourning he decides to help this little girl .  christ , father karras , and their nanny sharon ( kitty winn ) have to sit and wait until a man shows up , that man is the exorcist , and that man will help this little girl .  excrutiatingly scary , the exorcist is a classic horror film , which twenty seven years later still scares audiences half to death .  now we get to the experience " the exorcist " the way it was meant to be seen in a director's cut which incorpates fifteen minutes of new footage cut by friedkin at the time of the release for content and time , a new ending has been added as well , and adds more of a lighter feeling to the movie , which i prefer the original darker ending more .  the movie has also been remastered in a wonderful six channel digital sound mix , and is amazing .  the voices are all clear , the music pours out on you and engulfs you in richness .  as a director friedkin has been well known for other films , but his standout film is " the exorcist " nominated for several academy awards it one a few , but was somehow doubted best picture , best actress ( ellen burstyn ) and best supporting actress ( linda blair ) who at the age of i believe thirteen does a wonderful job of being a little girl , alone , possessed and unable to stop what is going on .  ellen burstyn i think gives her best performance to date , and can be seen currently in " requiem for a dream " to which she is getting rave reviews for .  jason miller ( jason patrik's dad ) is amazing as father karras , and his performance will be forever embedded in my mind , to me he is the character who makes the entire film float along .  i was saddened when i saw this film with an audience of mostly younger people to see them laughing at this movie , i in no way , think that this movie is comical , yes some of the stuff regan says is funny , but they were laughing at her head spinning , and the green pea soup , come on people this is some creepy stuff !  anyway the re-release of the film has managed to make $40 million dollars , and is still going .  hopefully one day they re-release it again in twenty years for more generations to come to enjoy . 
neg@ come on hollywood , surprise me .  stop giving us these poorly written thrillers with banal dialogue , sketchy characters and plots as predictable as the sunset .  the always watchable morgan freeman plays a detective who becomes personally involved in a case involving missing girls .  personal , because his niece is one of the victims .  it's a slobbering psychopath , of course , but this time there's a twist .  freeman notes that each of the young women who've disappeared are all strong willed , assertive , and more successful in their careers than the average girl .  we soon learn that the guy calls himself casanova , whose aim is to " dominate " these modern gals by imprisoning them in some dungeon and keeping them as his personal harem .  anyway , one of the women manages to escape ( ashly judd ) and teams up with freeman to . . . well ,  you know the rest .  a brief glance at the plot to silence of the lambs , with which this film is constantly being compared to by the hype merchants , may suggest lambs also has a fairly predictable story .  perhaps , but that film also has superbly drawn characters and smart dialogue .  so lets not insult a great movie by taking the comparisons any further , okay ?  and as for comparisons to seven . . . oh  please !  kiss the girls is based on the novel by james patterson and written for the screen by one david klass .  maybe the novel was a stinker to start with , but whatever the case , it's the writing that's clearly at fault here .  one , these characters have very little to say that's engaging or interesting .  two , the script has no sense of humour .  three , while the notion of a psycho's victims being smart , successful women is an interesting twist , the execution isn't even half as good as the idea .  thus , ashly judd comes across all out of focus , instead of being the heart of the story .  we can't feel her rage .  some atrociously written casual exchanges between her and several male characters are supposed to remind us that she's the no-bullshit 90's type , but these conversations barely register .  and as for freeman , kiss the girls is his second dog in a year : first chain reaction , now this .  for an actor of his calibre , this is most worrying .  young director gary fleder scored a hit a few years back with his quirky pulp fiction-esque things to do in denver when your dead .  but what can he do with material as resolutely mediocre as this ?  not much , and you can hardly blame him .  there's a few well-staged chase scenes through the forest where the camera whirls , dives and jumps , and the effect is startling .  but the script is beyond rescue .  what hurts most is that hollywood continues to get away with serving up this tripe , safe in the knowledge that jaded audiences will lap it up .  complacency rules : it's been so long since we saw a mainstream american thriller that delivered juicy characters , real surprises and consistently sharp dialogue .  the only consolation for this viewer is that my ticket to the movie was a freebie , positive proof that the best things in life aren't free . . . .   . 
pos@ when i first saw the previews for ron howard's latest film , my expectations were discouragingly low .  a show about nothing ?  sounds like " seinfeld . "  a guy whose entire life is broadcast 24 hours a day ?  sounds like " the truman show . "  what is it with hollywood that no sooner than one production company puts out an animated feature about ants , another puts one out about bugs ?  which is why i was pleasantly surprised by " edtv , " which turns out to be a fresh , insightful , and often times hilarious film about the follies of instant celebrity .  the writing , by howard's longtime collaborators lowell ganz and babaloo mandel , is right on the money and howard himself should be credited for giving the subject matter a fresh focus .  in the hands of a less-experienced director , " edtv " could easily have had all the flavor of yesterday's meatloaf .  with their 'true tv' cable ratings being threatened by 'the gardening channel' ( apparently people would rather watch soil ) , the northwest broadcasting company is looking for a novel concept to attract viewers .  program director cynthia topping ( ellen degeneres ) comes up with the idea of putting a nobody on the air and broadcasting his every waking and sleeping moment .  the hook is to find a regular guy , someone normal that people can relate to .  while scouting possible candidates , cynthia's camera crew discover ed pekurny and his pig brother ray ( woody harrelson ) in a bar , where ray believes he has what it takes for his fifteen plus minutes of fame .  but on watching the videotape , the show's producers are more taken with ed than with ray .  he's cute , he says all the wrong things , and he's 100% usda hick .  cynthia's boss , played by rob reiner , gives the show a week to deliver the goods and it's tough going in the early stages .  the most exciting thing that happens is ed brushes his teeth .   " action shot ! "  wags one of the production assistants when a couple of pop tarts jump out of the toaster .  you get the idea .  but soon enough , things--nielsen-boosting kinds of things--start to happen to this unassuming san francisco video store clerk and the 'true tv' cameras are right there to document it .  ed's privacy is no longer his own , his newfound fame starts having a negative impact on his family life , and what little dignity he has left is trampled on by the media .  who should ed go out with ?  you can be sure the pollsters have a list .  not only is the film exceedingly well cast , but its performers are consistently excellent .  matthew mcconaughey provides the face , the body language , and the lovable texan accent to fill the shoes of america's latest phenomenon .  he and harrelson look like they really could be brothers .  sally kirkland is noteworthy in a difficult role as ed's mother , and martin landau is one of the film's highlights as al , ed's ailing stepfather .  jenna elfman ( from tv's " dharma and greg " ) proves herself surprisingly worthy in the company of kirkland and landau , although those alpine eyebrows of hers get a little distracting .  even degeneres and reiner are better than you'd expect .  in 1979 , writer/director/comedian albert brooks made a zany little film called " real life " in which a small-time opportunist makes a real-time documentary about a typical american family .  the scenes of ed's family sitting around the dinner table feasting on kentucky fried chicken and waxing idiotic play like a big-budget variant on that film , paralleling its wickedly inventive humor .  as with most films by albert brooks , " real life " was funny , but absurd .  the funniest--and scariest--thing about " edtv " is that it is absolutely believable . 
neg@ annie wilson ( cate blanchett ) , a widow who struggles to raise her children in a small town in georgia is asked for help by local authorities in solving the case of a missing woman .  annie is something of a psychic , she has involuntary bouts with the supernatural where she can see the past and the future and physically feel the actions happenning to her she envisions .  her " gift " leads to the arrest of a nasty wife beater who may or may not have killed the pretty rich girl found in the swamp on his property .  in an ultra conservative backwoods town will her testimony based on her psychic visions hold up in court ?  do they even have the right man ?  what's good about it :  aside from keanu reeves giving one of the best performances of his career as the loathable redneck donnie barksdale , there is little else going for the film .  what's not so good about it :  lame , unoriginal screenplay .  predictable ending .  suspense scenes that are just plain boring .  ridicously trite characterization makes the entire south out to be ingnorant , hateful goobers .  relentless in its emotional sensationaliztion .  overall critique :   " the gift " is one of those movies that makes you wonder where you've seen this story before .  it's a collection of every cliche and stereotype of the south ever made , and coming from a yankee like me who dislikes the south that's really saying something .  for an established , talented director sam raimi is unable to provide any kind of originality to this film .  it's predictable from the first scene , the screenplay is written like a rip-off of a photocopied bootlegged play .  you know that as nasty as the murder suspect is he didn't actually do it .  it's no surprise either who the real villain turns out to be and what their motive was .  sigh , how trite .  for a supernatural thriller this is neither scary nor intense because it's so cliche .   " the gift " is basically a glorified b-movie . 
pos@ star wars : episode 1 - the phantom menace ( 1999 )  review by matt pusateri  few movies evoke nostalgia , enthusiasm , and affection like george lucas' 1977 classic , star wars .  the original blockbuster film and its two sequels not only evoked wonder and passion in a generation of filmgoers , but has deeply entrenched itself in american pop culture .  arguably , more americans today can explain what " the force " or a " jedi " is than a budget deficit or a serb .  so 22 years after the release of the original , and 16 years since the third film , the return of the jedi , how can any new star wars film withstand the weight of incomparable expectations and anticipation ?  can a new storyline and a new cast of characters possibly compete with the legends of the first trilogy - luke , han solo , and darth vader -all cultural icons ?  against this challenge , the fourth star wars film , episode one : the phantom menace hit the screens last week .  and despite some early critical reviews in the major media , the film is neither a flop nor a disappointment .  while the phantom menace is certainly not the finest film in the series , it is nonetheless engaging , exciting , and visually breathtaking .  it is a worthy sequel - er , prequel - to the original star wars films .  the phantom menace takes place decades before the setting of original films .  as the film opens , obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) , the wise old master who introduced luke to the force in the original star wars , is only a young jedi apprentice , still learning from his fellow jedi and instructor , qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) .  the republic government has sent the two jedi to settle a trade dispute that has developed into a blockade of the planet naboo by a shifty trade federation .  the jedi quickly find themselves not in negotiations , but in the middle of a planetary invasion , rushing to protect naboo's young queen amidala ( natalie portman ) .  later , after eventually rescuing amidala and helping her escape naboo , they are forced to stop at tatooine to repair their battle-damaged ship before bringing her to the galactic senate to make an appeal for justice .  on tatooine , qui-gon discovers a young slave boy , anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) , who not only can help them get the parts they need , but displays uncanny intelligence , insight , and instincts .  qui-gon senses the child is " unusually strong " with the force and begins to suspect that he may be " the one " prophesized to " bring balance to the force . "  as anyone who has watched the original star wars trilogy knows , far from being a galactic savior , the innocent-looking 9-year-old will in time become the ruthless darth vader .  complicating matters further is a mysterious hooded figure , darth sidious , is behind the trade blockade and invasion of naboo , and sends out a lethal apprentice , darth maul , to find and capture queen amidala .  while amidala and the jedi fight to save her planet , they soon also have to deal with the deadly and relentless darth maul .  if the plot sounds a bit complicated , it is .  the phantom menace not only introduces an earlier generation of characters and an immediate crisis , but sets up the foundation for the events that will eventually lead to the fall of the republic , the demise of the jedi knights , anakin's turn to evil , and the rise of the dark empire of original trilogy .  but the complexity is not overwhelming .  the story moves quickly , with the only drawback being that many questions , predictably , remain unanswered at the end of the film , setting the stage for the next episode .  one of the reasons the film's story seems hazy is not that it is too confusing , but too unfocused .  it's unclear whose story phantom menace is .  in the original trilogy , the movies were clearly luke's story , with the stories centering around his growth from farmboy to rebel hero to jedi knight .  but it's unclear whether this new film is anakin's story or obi-wan's .  if this trilogy is centered on anakin , it's a shaky foundation .  lloyd , like many child actors , lacks the subtle acting skills of adult performers , and as a result , his character seems shallow and unimpressive .  on screen , we see nothing that suggests a dark side lurking underneath his little-boy face , or for that matter , any presence that would make him seem so special that qui-gon is willing to believe he is " the one . "  the rest of the cast does fine , though they often work with some iffy dialogue by lucas .  neeson is perfect as an aging jedi knight .  mcgregor is well-cast as obi-wan and conveys a balance of youthful energy and calm sensibility .  portman fits the role of a young queen well , but her lines were often very formal , giving her little room to give her character much personality .  the biggest problem with the phantom menace is not the plot or the characters , but the interaction between them .  individually , the characters in this new film are no less developed than those in the original star wars , and the storyline is not more confusing than previous films in the series .  but unlike the previous trilogy , lucas doesn't do as good of a job playing the characters off one another .  in star wars , there were immediate contrasts and memorable exchanges between luke and han , han and obi-wan , and leia and luke .  the ensemble played off each other and immediately showed their distinct attitudes and personalities .  in the sequence in where luke , han , and chewbacca attempt to rescue leia from her cell on the death star , the audience learns a lot about all four characters in the ways they react to the immediate problems and each other .  there is no comparable sequence in the phantom menace to flesh out the characters and their relationships with each other .  individually , they are interesting characters with clear motivations and interests , but lucas develops little chemistry or tension between the them .  this is perhaps the most glaring weakness of this film , and is probably the reason it has disappointed many reviewers .  but despite the need for a richer dialogue and stronger character interaction , the film is still very engaging .  many of the wonderful elements of lucas' previous films make the phantom menace both memorable and entertaining .  first , of course , is the remarkably rich and imaginative universe lucas creates .  the characters visit magical underwater cities , evade dinosaur-sized sea monsters , fight battle droids and menacing " destroyers " on venetian-looking planet of naboo , watch a spectacular event , part roman-chariot race , part nascar circuit , on the arid desert planet of tatooine , then head to corsucant , the gothic urban capital of the republic and home to the galactic senate and the jedi council .  each location is elaborate and complex .  lucas never settles for vague ideas about the look of his settings , he creates rich , spectacular landscapes , palaces , and skylines .  most of the new special effects in his re-released special edition trilogy in 1997 were changes that allowed him to give the earlier movies the look and feel that just weren't possible when the films were made .  more than ever , in this new film , lucas' universe is filled with a menagerie of creatures , robots with personalities , and a supporting cast of aliens who interact with the main characters .  the best such character is watto , a greedy tatooine junk dealer who owns anakin and his mother as slaves .  watto has a scratchy italian voice and a short , paunchy body with oddly mismatched wings that flutter like a hummingbird as he floats around the room .  of all the computer-generated characters in the film , watto is the best done and most enjoyable .  speaking of computer-generated characters , no review of the phantom menace is complete without mentioning the most controversial figure in the film : jar jar binks .  with more than 80 minutes of screen time , jar jar is the realization of george lucas' dream to include a fully computer-generated character into the cast of the new trilogy .  jar jar , a clumsy amphibian and member of the gungan race , literally stumbles his way into the path of the jedi knights early in the film and becomes qui jon's accidental sidekick .  jar jar usually performs a comic-relief role in the film , lightening scenes with his mishaps and inability to stay out of trouble .  the animation of jar jar is nearly seamless , and he interacts with the characters throughout the film as if he were really on the set with the actors .  however , despite the technological magic that makes his character possible , jar jar isn't completely convincing .  he still moves and sounds too much like a cartoon to blend into a scene .  throughout the movie , jar jar never transcends a " roger rabbit " -like presence .  you accept that he's there , but you never lose sight of the fact that he is an animated character .  initially , i found jar jar annoying , but grew to enjoy the humor he added to the film .  on my second viewing of the film , jar jar was a lot of fun and i didn't mind him at all .  a second reason this film continues the fine tradition of star wars movies is that the film is replete with humor and small details that flesh out the world lucas creates .  despite all the film's struggles between good and evil , and the sober musings about one's destiny and " the force , " like all star wars films , the phantom menace never takes itself too seriously .  fortunately , lucas hasn't lost sight of the fact that his films are entertainment , not high art .  from the bumbling jar jar , to a one-man , two-headed announcer team calling the action at the film's thrilling pod-race sequence , to a cameo appearance by e . t .  in the film , the phantom menace is simply a lot of fun , with lots of half-hidden jokes and humor that can easily be missed .  and finally , the phantom menace works because , as in all his films , there is no shortage of speed and action .  from beginning to end , there are light-saber battles , hair-raising chases , and thrilling duels between good and evil .  the pod-race sequence on tatooine is one of the most entertaining and exciting scenes in any star wars film , and the final showdown between obi-wan , qui-gon , and darth maul is arguably the best choreographed , most thrilling fight sequence lucas has filmed .  the phantom menace won't win any major oscars .  it probably won't beat titanic's box office record .  and it's not even the best star wars film ( i'd put it third , after the original and the empire strikes back ) .  but it's an exciting and entertaining film , far better than your typical summer blockbuster .  the film can't live up to it's hype - no film , not even the original star wars , could have done that .  but it's still worth seeing . . .  probably more than once . 
neg@ the crown jewel of 1970's irwin allen disaster movies , the poseidon adventure features an all-star cast including gene hackman and ernest borgnine spouting some of the most laughable dramatic dialogue in movie history while trapped on a cruise ship .  the story begins on the u . s . s .  poseidon's big new year's cruise , where we are introduced to the ensemble of people who will soon be the only passengers left alive .  let's see , there's the new age preacher ( hackman ) who advises people to " pray to that part of god within yourself . "  there's the ex-cop ( borgnine ) who busted a hooker ( stella stevens ) six times -- then married her .  there's the hippie singer ( " there's got to be a morning after . . . " ) who turns to the company of a lonely man ( red buttons ) once her brother is killed .  and to round out the group : the elderly couple ( jack albertson and shelley winters ) who live aboard the ship , the beautiful teenage girl and her brother who are sailing alone and adventurous scotsman roddy mcdowall .  we get to know these people a little too well in the first thirty minutes of the poseidon adventure , before straight- faced ship captain leslie nielson looks in horror at the giant tidal wave headed right for the ship .  everyone's in the giant ballroom at the time , shortly past midnight of the new year , when the ship turns first on its side , then completely upside down .  the second- in-command wants everyone to wait in the ballroom until help arrives , but rebel hackman leads his small band of followers on a quest to the top of the ship .  in this case , because the ship is overturned , the top is the bottom .  or is the bottom the top ?  either way , we get to see a lot of bottoms because the two beautiful women in the crew are both conveniently wearing hot pants during the scenes where the camera shoots upwards while they climb up ladders and -- in the ballroom scene -- christmas trees .  thus begins an hour or more of hushed trips down long corridors , through burning rooms , etc . while the ship slowly fills with water behind them .  it's a race against the clock which is only mildly interesting .  the poseidon adventure works more as a bad movie to laugh at , with all the melodrama that comes in-between the non-thrilling action scenes .  the one note in borgnine's one-note performance is to be a cranky old man that argues with hackman every step of the way while buttons and the hippie fall in love ( although since there isn't a sex scene , we never find out if his buttons really are red ) and albertson and winters wonder if they'll live to see their grandson's birth .  shelley winters provides the most hilarious scene in the movie in a scene toward the end , where water has flooded the next two rooms of the ship and hackman is preparing to dive under with a rope for the rest of them to pull along .  winters , who has been the whiny fat woman throughout the movie ( stevens even not-so- affectionately calls her " fatass " in one scene ) , finally finds her purpose .   " i was the underwater swimming champ of new york three years running when i was seventeen , " she brags , and before hackman can even ask her how she could be seventeen for three years , she's swimming through the water , her skirt billowing up around her hips , showing off her cellulite ( or do you call it shellulite ? )  ridden thighs .  it's not so much funny as innately disgusting , which pretty much sums up the poseidon adventure as a whole . 
pos@ some of my friends who went to live in usa complain about one thing - that country is very different from the one depicted in hollywood movies .  that is especially true for those who end up somewhere in that unexplored land between los angeles and new york where they find , to their big surprise , that the majority of people vote republican , go to church every sunday and usually don't tolerate liberal attitudes that are taken for granted in an average american film .  such rude awakening , however , can happen in another direction - conservative people are sometimes forced to discover unpleasant truths about world they live in .  something like that happens to jake van dorn ( george c . scott ) , successful grand rapids businessman who shares strong calvinist convictions with the rest of his community .  one day his daughter kristen ( ilah davis ) disappears from calvinist youth convention in california .  van dorn is worried because he doesn't believe that his daughter would run from home .  however , the truth delivered by private investigator andy mast ( peter boyle ) is even harder - kristen is spotted in cheap pornographic film .  infuriated van dorn is unsatisfied with the way mast's investigation is going , so he goes to los angeles to search for kristen himself .  unfortunately , he lacks experience and the quest , that brought him to the utter depths of sex underworld , is fruitless .  things change when he devises cunning plan and , while doing it , stumbles on sympathetic prostitute and part time porno actress nicky ( season hubley ) .  almost two decades after its release , hardcore is mostly forgotten by critics and film scholars .  it is a real shame , because very few movies in today's hollywood would dare tackle controversial issues that writer and director paul schrader explored in his second directorial attempt .  in late 1970s , it was totally different situation - films were expected to have mature , serious themes for the mature audience .  for schrader this film was nice opportunity to expand the subplot of his previous work , taxi driver - one that deals with the great generational divide that tormented the american society in 1970s .  on one side we have an old america that sticks to the puritan ideals of hard work and strict morals that made that country great .  but that america is obviously unable to cope with the new challenges brought by the social turmoil in 1960s and , instead of facing them , prefers to live in rural , conservative cocoons .  the new america , on the other hand , fares no better - ideals of the so-called " sexual revolution " , same as all other " revolutions " of the swinging sixties , degraded into exploitation and depravity .  instead of being " liberated " , baby boomers are stuck with their own inability to cope with the newly discovered freedoms .  schrader very cleverly brings the idea that those two americas , actually , aren't so far away - nice example is a brilliant scene in which van dorn , already described as an authoritarian and paternalistic capitalist , meets sleazy porno producer ; the latter one also turns out to be authoritarian , paternalistic and very dedicated to this job .  the difference between the two is simply in the line of work .  many contemporary critics actually accused schrader of promoting conservative agenda .  on the surface , it may look that way - audience is forced to sympathise with van dorn and his quest .  in the first scenes , he is portrayed as nice family man who actually doesn't deserve to experience parent's worst nightmare .  the scene in the porno cinema that reveals kristen's fate is extremely cruel ; pain and humiliation , brought by oscar-winning actor george c . scott , is of such intensity , that the audience feels sorry for him and simply must support his agenda .  van dorn is perhaps flawed , and the subtle hints lead to the unflattering truth at the end ; but the viewers simply know that his cause is just , and that prodigal daughter must be better off with her loving father than with the sleazy pornographers that only want to exploit her body .  on the other hand , schrader , who grew up in an environment very much like van dorn's ( his own parents wouldn't allow him to watch movies until he was 18 ) , knows better and tries to bring another side of coin .  even the people connected with sex underworld can show redeeming qualities - like nicky , who actually tries to improve her life , and sleazy detective who develops something like a conscience at the end .  unfortunately , schrader fails to erase the impact of the shocking scene at the beginning , and his attempt to reconcile the opposing sides of america seems lost in somewhat clich ? d finale .  the script is slightly flawed , and schrader as director doesn't show too much originality - his style seems too influenced by techniques that scorsese used in taxi driver .  apart from the scenes in grand rapids , those two films even look alike .  but the content might be more than interesting for today's viewer , especially those inspired by the current 70s revival .  until boogie nights , no hollywood mainstream movie ever dared to explore the phenomenon of pornography in 1970s .  hardcore , on the other hand , might serve as precious document , because it depicts sex film industry in the period often regarded as the golden age by connoisseurs - before the advent of video , when many of the porno filmmakers could afford to think of themselves as artists .  the view of such age and the industry is very unflattering , though , but for the film whose main character takes time to explain calvinist doctrines to the audience , that shouldn't be too surprising .  anyway , despite some flaws , hardcore remains very interesting and powerful piece of cinema . 
neg@ this is not a simple plan about finding a plane load of money and getting away with the cash .  this is more about a parable of greed , and how money can become the bane of your life .  yes , there are elements of ? fargo' here ( the snow and cold ) , although not as vivid in the blood and gore department .  it shows how greed can set of a chain of events leading to death and the destruction of lives .  and how at the end of the day , the things that matter most are love , truth and honesty .  although in one sense it may seem tedious , making a movie about the ugliness of greed ( not box office material ) , it does become tedious , not because of the morale ending , but because one expects the movie to end that way .  this becomes apparent after the first murder to cover up the crime , the rest of the movie just spirals downward from there .  the characters in this drama are a mixture of simple and intellectual folk , brothers and friends , who all fall prey to the avarice of money .  they should have perhaps thrown in someone sensible , level headed and not affected by greed to give the party more balance .  commendable is the exceptional performance of billy bob thornton , whose portrayal of the simpleton brother was masterful .  bill paxton also gives a powerful performance as the greedier younger brother , whilst bridget fonda is convincing as the greediest wife , who indirectly causes the most problems .  fill a room full of greedy people and several million dollars , and you will end up with a simple recipe for a blood bath .  it's not a simple plan , when you shoot everyone you love for money , unless you're the menendez brothers . 
pos@  " a private matter " is based on the true story of sherri finkbine and the events in her life during the 1960s .  after becoming pregnant ( for the fifth time ) she learns that some tranquilizers she had taken have seriously deformed her unborn child .  she and her husband decide , with the help of her doctor , to have an abortion .  but this is the 1960s , and abortion is illegal .  her doctor has made arrangements to have the procedure performed withing the law , by claiming that the child is endangering the mother's life .  everything is about to work out just fine , until sherri has the uncontrollable urge to talk about her situation with a local reporter .  this sets off a media frenzy and immediately sherri is the most hated woman in the world .  she and her husband are fired from their jobs , reporters are surrounding their home at all times , and most importantly , no one in the country ( and eventually other countries ) will perform the abortion .  this causes emotion problems for all involved .   " a private matter " is a fascinating story and it's hard to believe that this only happened 30 years or so ago .  it's only flaw is that not once is there ever a satisfactory confrontation with sherri and any of her opponents .  one woman passing her on the street telss her to burn in hell , and when sherri appropriately yells back , " just tell me what i'm supposed to do , " the woman has no answer .  no one apparently had an answer , they just wanted to control what should have been only the choice of sherri and her husband .  this is an important film , telling an important story .  it's not just about not wanting another child , it's about not wanting a child who will cause severe changes in their family , none of which could be beneficial .  sydney pollack served as executive producer for this made for hbo movie . 
neg@ possibly the years the most anticipated film and finally it arrives here in the uk .  it smashed u . s box office office records in it's opening weekend and will no doubt do the same here .  but is it any good ?  in a word , no .  i'll elaborate further .  the story is as follows .  apparently there were two islands with dinosaurs on .  one where the dinos lived untouched by mankind and the other a tourist attraction which failed before it even opened .   ( see jurrasic park . )  imgen , the company that funded jurrasic park , want to reccover their losses by taking more dinos off the other island and move them to a new attraction in san diago .  realizing what a bad idea this is , proffessor john hammond ( richard attenborough ) decides to send a team to document the dinosaurs , so as to rally public support to preserve the island .  enter familiar mumbling man jeff goldblum who only agrees to go when told his girlfriend is already there .  so , basically , what you have is this .  two teams , one sent to catch and move some dinosaurs to the mainland and the other , trying to document them , being forced to work together , fighting for survival against the dinosaurs' firm intentions on eating them .  a fairly good idea , however it's let down by one slight problem .  it's crap .  over two hours of chase scenes gets way too boring , way too quiclky .  add to this a terrible script and some feeble attempts at some occasional characterisation and you end up very disinterested .  it becomes background noise while your mind starts concentrating on things like , 'what's for tea ? ' and 'should you cut the lawn later ? '   ( yes , you should ) .  it's a shame then really , that spielberg has lowered himself into making what essentially is a blatant cash in , which adds practically nothing to the far superior jurrasic park .  with only a few creative and genuinely tense scenes and fabulous c . g . i  dinosaurs ( the t . rex's have to be seen to be believed ) , there is nothing else to recommend the lost world .  a very dissapointing sequel , indeed . 
pos@  " last night " could have an " aka " tagged on the end of it that says , " it's the end of the world , and we feel fine " .   " last night " is about just that .  the last night of planet earth's existence .  the world is going to end at precisely midnight , january 1st , 2000 .  how scientists were so accurately able to predict when this catastrophic event would occur is never explained .  nor is the event itself .  throughout the entire movie , no explanation is given as to why this is happening .  in doing this , mckellar ( who also wrote and directed the film ) seems to be trying to transcend the genre .  he's attempted to make a film about people , and how each of them deals with their last night of life .  the film contains no science fiction elements , which allows the viewer to concentrate on the feelings and actions of the characters .  mckellar is largely successful in his attempt to rise above his material .  the film is set in toronto , and follows several people in their various escapades on the last night of existence .  there's mckellar , who plays a man who just wants to be alone when the moment occurs , but keeps getting interrupted by a woman ( sandra oh ) in search of her husband .  her husband , played by david cronenberg , is spending the day working at the gas company , informing people that they will attempt to keep providing gas right up until the end .  finally , there's mckellar's friend , played by callum keith rennie , a man who has spent his final months trying out every sexual perversion you can think of .  mckellar has crafted a gang of the some of the most interesting characters i've seen in a film in months .  these people all felt real to me , especially the character played by sandra oh .  we can see her desperation , her utter need to be with her husband in the final hours .  rennie is good , too , as the man who wants to literally try everything before he dies .  he exudes such charm and likeablity , it's not surprising that we're rooting for him to get what he wants .  but for me , the biggest surprise in the movie is mckellar .  i knew that he was a talented director , but i had no idea he could act as well .  his insistence to be alone , much to the dismay of his parents , is something that most people would find difficult to understand , but as played by mckellar , we can understand his reasons .  he doesn't buy into the whole notion that just because everyone's going to die , he should immediately find some companionship .  he realizes the relationship would be forced , and they would only be together for the sake of being together .  mckellar gives a brilliant performance , and i hope he alternates between directing and acting .  my only quibble with the film is that we never find out why the world is ending .  i really wanted to know , and my need to know was hanging over the film at all times .  i appreciate the fact that mckellar didn't want the material to rule the film , and that he wanted the movie to be more of a study in human behavious .  however , in not telling the audience what the cause of earth's destruction is , he's left a big question that is in their minds throughout the film .  another problem is we never see anybody panicking .  i would imagine if the world was ending , and there was nothing to be done about it , a large segment of the population would be going out of their minds .  instead , we are treated to shots of a giant crowd partying like it's new year's eve .  i just didn't buy the fact that everyone had completely accepted their fate .  no one had the urge to " rage against the dying of the light " .  despite these small problems , " last night " is one of the best movies of the year .  as opposed to the moronic " armageddon " , " last night " treats the subject at hand with maturity and believabilty .  and bruce willis never shows up to save the day . 
neg@ synopsis : sullen julie james , still haunted by nightmares of the killer ben willis from i know what you did last summer , perks up when her new best friend karla wilson wins a trip for four to the bahamas .  arriving at the start of the hurricane season , julie and karla run around in very tight clothing and realize they've walked into a trap set by the rainslickered slasher with a huge hook for a hand .  comments : i may be showing some pop culture illiteracy here , but i have never seen an episode of the fox tv series " party of five . "  i am only vaguely aware of the show's premise , and my knowledge of it comes from brief commercials i half-paid attention to while watching the tube .   " party of five , " i do know however , seems to be the starting ground for actresses in the teen horror genre .  neve campbell , scream queen of the 90s and star of scream , scream 2 , and the craft , is a regular of the show .  so too is jennifer love hewitt .  lo and behold , following in the footsteps of campbell , hewitt now has a horror franchise of her own : the i know what you did last summer line .  though the original film , released last year , was watchable enough , this insipid sequel had me looking at the theater's glowing red exit sign longingly throughout .  jennifer love hewitt is a very good-looking young leading lady ; however , unlike neve campbell , hewitt struggles with acting .  she just isn't convincing in this film ( and she wasn't in the original either ) .  this puts many young males , including myself , in a paradoxical quandary : she's very attractive , but the annoying , spoiled , valley girl-type character she tries to play here is annoying to the extreme and ruins many of the scenes which emphasize , exploitatively , her figure .  add to the mix the equally pleasant yet irritating brandy , another rising teen tv star , and you get one frustrated male audience .  i've spent so much time on hewitt and brandy for a reason .  i still know what you did last summer , though cashing in on the success of the original , ultimately serves as a vehicle for these two young actresses .  nothing else here is original or interesting .  this movie , in fact , makes other recent so-so horror films like urban legend and john carpenter's vampires seem like stunning works of high art .  i still know relies heavily on tired slasher film cliches : an isolated location , a storm , parentless teenagers , false alarm nightmares , lots of blue-lighted darkness scenes , a garbed slasher who walks around in the background without the characters seeing him , knives and other sharp instruments lying around everywhere , etc . you get the picture .  the entire audience knows all the secondary characters introduced in the film are going to receive the business end of the killer's hook .  they may as well have huge targets painted on them .  like scream and its numerous knockoffs , these secondary characters are supposed to serve as comic relief .  unfortunately , i still know's characters aren't all that funny .  in particular , one character , a chain-weed-smoking guy , is obnoxiously annoying and certainly doesn't die soon enough .  the death scenes , by the way , are relatively violent for a theatrically released horror film .  several of them are uncomfortable to watch , and they reminded me of the sickening gore scenes in hellraiser : bloodline , a truly sadistic movie .  this , too , did not help the supposed humor i still know was shooting for .  and what is the deal with the slasher himself ?  i know that the slasher film is not a particularly intelligent genre , but ben willis has got to go down as one of the most silly slashers in mainstream horror .  come on , the guy looks like the gorton's fisherman , and his gruff voice makes him sound like a disney pirate .  though his lightning-lit appearances ellicited much-needed laughter in the theater , his appearance borders on the absurd in the horror film , and that's * really * saying something .  so , all that's left to talk about here is jennifer love hewitt and brandy .  both prance about in tightfitting , revealing outfits or in various states of undress , yet neither of them ever actually do a nude scene .  hewitt , however , does do a post-shower scene in which her thin bathrobe is quite .   .   . titillating .  this scene alone made this one-star turkey earn two stars under my rating system .  otherwise , hewitt and brandy both grate on the nerves .  early in the film , for instance , brandy wins the trip to the bahamas .  she and hewitt jump around and scream and screech for what seems like forever .  i needed extra-strength tylenol after that part .  oh , and the film's conclusion , talk about repetitive !  people who saw i know what you did last summer will predict i still know's ending at least 5 minutes before it happens .  boring !  i saw this movie with my brother at the local downtown movie theater .  admission is only one dollar on wednesdays , and we often go see bad movies on these days just to ridicule them .  it's usually a fun thing to do along with the rest of the audience , who don't seem to mind participating in a mass " mystery science theater 3000 " -type viewing .  i still know what you did last summer , however , produced several lengthy uncomfortable silences from the audience , underscoring how bad it * really * is .  if it weren't for the main actresses' revealing wardrobes , i'd have had a very , very hard time sitting through this lame sequel .  i can't imagine trying to watch it on video ( horror films seem 10 times better in a theater because they rely heavily on audience participation ) and wouldn't recommend it to people , unless they're horror film fanatics or huge fans of hewitt and brandy .  i read on a website somewhere that another sequel is already in the works .  what a depressing thought .  hewitt apparently needs to spend more time on tv figuring out how to act .  rated r , this film contains lots of violence , several gory scenes , and a couple nubile , horny teenagers--though the sex act itself is always thwarted .  i'd say this is unsuitable for kids , but teens wouldn't have a problem sitting through it , especially since they obviously compose the film's target audience . 
pos@ there is a striking scene early in " city of angels , " where all the angels who live unseen in our midst , gather at the beach to watch the sun rise .  the camera moves above them , showing the endless rows of ethereal men and women , all garbed in black .  then the camera moves in on the face of seth , an angel played by nicolas cage , and as the sun rises , he smiles and his entire face lights up .  you see , the angels can hear music in sunrises and sunsets , but they cannot feel a human touch .  it is an important scene for several reasons .  first of all , it is one of many instances in the film that make angels seem thoroughly plausible .  the film presents these fantastic beings as normal-looking people who drift amongst the inhabitants of earth , watching what goes on with little interference .  there are none of the standard , hokey angel references used in recent films like " angels in the outfield " ( 1994 ) or " michael " ( 1996 ) .  the angels here are stark and believable .  this early scene on the beach is also an important scene of juxtaposition , for its shows how god's angels can enjoy aspects of the earth that human cannot , and yet they are denied so many simple human pleasures , like feeling the sand on their feet or the waves lapping at their legs , or the smell of the salt in the air .  there is an inherent tragedy in being an angel , although there is much beauty in it as well .  they eternally walk the earth , listening to our thoughts , touching us in our pain , and leading the dying to heaven .  like human existence , being an angel is often confused and unsure .   " city of angels " is essentially a love story , between seth and a human , a beautiful but sad heart surgeon named maggie ( meg ryan ) .  he first sees her when he is in her operating room , waiting to lead the soul of her dying patient to heaven .  maggie is distraught , doing everything in her power to stop the man from dying on her table , and seth is moved by her efforts and , more importantly , her overwhelming sadness when the patient dies .  angels have the limited power to soothe humans in time of misery and pain , and seth does what he can with his invisible touch , but it's not enough .  he wants to be with her and share her pain , not just stand back at a distance .  he learns that the only way to fulfill his desire for human love and touch is for him to " fall " and become human .  he learns this from another fallen angel , played by dennis franz ( " n . y . p . d .  blue " ) in a touching and humorous performance .  sitting at a diner together , franz tells cage's character about how wonderful it is to be human - to be able to taste food , feel another person's skin , smell the air , and most importantly , have a loving wife and children .  of course , there is pain to go along with all this , but for seth , it will be worth it .   " city of angels " is something of a reinterpretation of wim wender's haunting 1988 film " wings of desire . "  wenders' film was more like a poem - it was the feeling , the emotion that truly mattered over what actually happened .  the americanized version moves the location from divided berlin to broken los angeles , and the emphasis shifts onto the relationship between the immortal angel and the mortal human .  and , unlike most foreign films that are re-made into hollywood fare , it doesn't suffer extensive damage .  this may be because director brad silberling ( " casper " ) and screenwriter dana stevens ( " blink " ) wanted to make " city of angels " its own movie - inspired by " wings of desire , " but not an attempt to copy it .  and yet , " city of angels " is not a typical hollywood movie .  it is beautifully filmed in lush colors by cinematographer john seale ( " the english patient " ) , whose sweeping aerial shots and golden lighting make los angeles into an almost unrecognizable new world .  seale creates many striking visuals : in addition to the beach scene , there is a wonderful sequence in a circular library where all the angels appear at banisters all around , looking down at seth as he watches maggie walk by .  while the film travels along a charted plot , it takes time to develop its characters and situations ; it sheds light on the boundaries between what is earthly and what is heavenly , and shows just how thin those boundaries are .  both cage and ryan give soulful , soft-spoken performances .  ryan , who is usually so bouncy and energetic , truly embodies a sadness that can only be alleviated by a heavenly touch .  cage projects all his desire and longing to be human in simple , heartfelt gazes , and speaks with the comforting , knowing voice that only an angel could have .  what is most striking about " city of angels " is that stevens has added a new ending to the screenplay , which is both unexpected and challenging .  it's not a formulaic hollywood ending , because it is both sad and uplifting at the same time .  it doesn't give the audience what it thinks it wants at the end of a romance .  instead , it offers something much better , something that speaks to the depths of what it means to be human and alive .  ____________________________________________ visit " charlie don't surf ! "  an eclectic collection of film reviews by james kendrick http : //www . bigfoot . com/~jimkendrick  || e-mail : jimkendrick!bigfoot . com 
neg@ written by alex cox , tod davies , terry gilliam and tony grisoni  directed by terry gilliam  i've always preferred mushrooms to blotter acid .  dropping acid is like riding a roller coaster blindfolded ; you have no idea where the peaks and valleys are , no idea when the next terrifying decent will send your stomach into your throat , and no idea how long the ride will last .  then there's the hard knot in your gut and the clenched teeth that come with ingesting a strychnine-laced dose .  mushrooms , on the other hand , offer the psychedelic equivalent of a leisurely ride on a ferris wheel : a steady , reassuring assent , a short period of thrilling motion and color , and then a smooth landing .  acid is for daredevils ; mushrooms are for refined seekers of joy .  my point is that in fear and loathing in las vegas , director terry gilliam has made an acid movie , when i wish he would have made a mushroom movie .  full of shocking sight gags , aggressive images and grotesque comic performances , the film certainly offers something for those fans of hunter s . thompson's book who want to experience its twisted pharmacological world-view from the inside out .  but for those of us who just want to enjoy a well-made film , gilliam has produced a mixed bag .  fear and loathing tells the ostensibly true story of how self-professed " gonzo " journalist hunter s . thompson ( johnny depp ) and hispanic activist attorney oscar zeta actosta ( benicio del toro ) , came to las vegas to cover a motorcycle race and found themselves trapped in the middle of a district attorney's convention while ingesting every conceivable drug available to a man of means in 1971 .  operating under the pseudonyms of " raoul duke " and " dr .  gonzo " , the two men careen into vegas on an acid and mescaline bender , then hole up in a hotel suite to binge on amyl nitrite , cocaine , tequila and a rainbow of multi-colored uppers and downers .  they terrorize every one they meet , mostly because every one they meet terrifies them .  duke hallucinates giant bats on the way into town , then is attacked by horrifying lizards in the casino lounge .  dr . gonzo becomes enamored of a thick-bladed hunting knife and begs duke to throw the tape player into the bathtub with him just as jefferson airplane's " white rabbit " reaches its climax .  and these guys don't just trash hotel rooms - they rape them , humiliate them and leave them for dead .  that neither of them ends up dead or in jail is testament to blind luck or providence , depending on your point of view .  thompson's book , besides being a hilarious read , has stood the test of time as an important historical document .  it simultaneously exposed the 60's drug culture for the sham that it was and exposed las vegas as the place where the american dream came to die .  pontificate all you want about how the film illustrates thompson's message , but the truth is that , stripped to its bare essentials , what gilliam has wrought is a drug comedy .  it's a cheech and chong movie .  you're there to watch depp and del toro ingest a lot of chemicals and then laugh at the results : see johnny take drugs , see johnny fall down .  there's nothing wrong with this concept , but gilliam tries too hard .  this is a frantic movie - all sweaty close-ups , wide-angle lenses , dutch tilts and other-worldly lighting schemes .  there are times when gilliam really does put a convincing representation of an acid trip on the screen .  but to what end ?  much of the dialogue comes verbatim from thompson's book , and there are some priceless comic observations .  but you're hard pressed to hear or digest them amidst all the jumbled camera work .  this brings us to the performances , which strike me as all wrong .  depp plays thompson as groucho marks filtered through george c . scott in patton - a gimmicky performance which works against the biting satire of thompson's dialogue .  in between his several puking scenes , del toro fares better as dr . gonzo , but he also mumbles and sputters so many of his lines that their weight is lost .  watching these two made me wish that the movie had been made twenty years ago , with dan akroyd and john belushi as the leads - now that would have been something to see .  it's interesting to note that alex cox , credited as a co-writer on the screenplay , was originally slated to direct before gilliam took over .  as much of a fan as i am of gilliam's work , cox would have been the better choice .  sid and nancy , cox's best work , covered essentially the same subject matter , but cox was able to pull back and allow the characters of sid vicious and nancy spungen to carry the film .  gilliam commits the compound sin of over-directing his film while being uncertain of his purpose .  what kind of movie was he trying to make , anyway ?  it doesn't try to be a cautionary tale , and it doesn't work as broad comedy .  if he had considered more carefully his purpose , the result would have been a much more interesting film .  but i don't want to be too hard on it .  there are some truly funny moments , and if you're in a good enough mood you might get a kick out of it .  i do , however , recommend watching fear and loathing in las vegas under the influence of your favorite controlled substance - i guarantee it will enhance the effect . 
pos@ it's a fact that a good thriller or action movie doesn't need violence to be good or worth watching .  all it takes is potential violence to make the audience bite their nails .  and what kind of violence could be more efficient than a global thermo-nuclear war ?  and potential violence is the premiss wargames is built upon .  a computer whiz-kid , david , is usually contended with hacking into the school computer to change his grades .  but after having read an advertisment for an upcoming computer game , he wants to be the first to play it .  instead of getting into the computer at protovision software he accidentally comes to the frontgate of norad .  with the help of jennifer , a girl in his biology class , he starts to play a nice game of nuclear war with wopr , war operation plan response ( a top-notch computer at the time , but now hardly faster than my own computer )  i remember being 12 and watching this at the cinema .  it was very efficent at giving you a scare in those days and that hasn't changed .  of course , a nuclear war seemed to be much more of something that could actually happen back in 1983 .  i wouldn't be surprised if this gave people nightmares .  i hope it still does since you still hear about school kids hacking into the computers at pentagon .  broderick and sheedy are just fine as the young teenagers ( although her interest in david remains a mystery ) .  but the rest of the actors are , by no fault of their own , restricted by the script to play one-dimensional grownups .  david's parents are the same kind of parents that populate all these college comedies from the 1980s , movies like secret admirer , porky's or zapped and the norad general beringer is straight out of dr . strangelove .  if for no other reason , you should see this movie to enjoy how far the computer technology has gone since those days .  david uses the same telephone for calling friends as calling other computers .  the modem is some kind of device that he puts the headset on .  far from any 56k modem my guess is that it's some kind of 2400 bps modem , the kind of technology you now find at your local technical museum .  the big computer at norad has a lot of flashing lights ( just like those you see on star trek or any old sf-movie ) but it's hardly impressing compared with what you can get today .  what are the lessons we can learn from wargames ?  1 .  make sure there are no secret backdoors into military computers .  2 . thank you , whoever it was , for giving us a graphical user interface when we use our computers ! 
neg@ hong kong cinema has been going through a bad spell .  the last few productions have been effect laded action adventures that combine both the best and worst of american filmmaking with the same qualities of hong kong films .  in a nutshell , the current crop of films from hong kong has been maddeningly convoluted and visually sumptuous .  with the one time british colony reverting back to mainland ownership , a lot of hong kong's best talents have crossed the pacific to work on u . s . productions .  such talents as jackie chan ( rush hour ) , chow yun-fat ( anna & the king , the corrupter ) and yuen woo-ping ( the matrix ) have all moved into the budget bloated world of hollywood filmmaking with mixed results .  now we can add two other hong kong filmmakers to the mix with star jet li and director and fight choreographer corey yuen kwai .  unfortunately " romeo must die " bears all the trademarks of a typical hollywood action film and none of hong kong's rhythms .  the film opens in a nightclub as an asian couple is necking .  enter a group of chinese gangsters led by kai sing ( russell wong ) .  kai confronts po sing ( jon kit lee ) , the son of kai's boss and leader of the local chinese family .  a battle breaks out between the bodyguards of the club and kai , who handily kicks and punches his opponents down .  it's not until club owner silk ( rapper dmx ) , bears down on kai and his henchmen that the fight ends .  the following morning po sing is found dead .  suspicions escalate , as issac o'day ( delroy lindo ) is told of the murder .  his concern that the war between his and the chinese family may explode and ruin his plans to move out of the business of corruption and into a legitimate venture .  issac implores his chief of security , mac ( issiah washington ) to watch after his son and daughter .  the scene shifts to a prison in china , where han sing ( jet li ) learns of his brothers murder .  he fights with the guards and is dragged off to be disciplined .  hung upside down by one foot , han recovers and battle his way out of custody in a blistering display of fight choreography and stunt work .  escaping to the u . s . han sets out to find the person responsible for his brother's death .   " romeo must die " is in many ways a fun film .  it is both absurd and assured .  the basic plot of a gangster wanting to become legitimate echoes " the godfather " .  the relationship between jet li's han and aaliyah's trish o'day reminds us of abel ferrera's " china girl " , except that romeo must die's couple never once exchange more than a loving glance towards one another .  their romance is much more puritanical than any other romance in film history .  the performances are adequate if not fully acceptable .  li , of course has the showiest part , having to express both an innocents and steadfast determination .  allayah , in her feature film debut manages to carry what little is asked of her with a certain style and grace .  it's obvious that the camera loves her and she is very photogenic .  but , still the part is under written in such a way that even a poor performance would not have affected it .  delro lindo as issac o'day carries himself well in the film .  an unsung and under appreciated actor , mr . lindo turns out the films best performance .  the other performers are all adequate in what the script asks of them except for d . b . woodside as issac's son , colin .  the performance is undirected , with the character changing his tone and demeanor in accordance with whatever location he is in .  an unfocused performance that should have been reigned in and / or better written .  first time director andrzej bartkowiak does a workmanlike job in handling the film .  having a career as one of the industry's best cinematographers , bartkiwiak knows how to set up his shots , and " romeo must die " does look good .  but the pacing of the film is lethargic , only coming to a semblance of life during the fight scenes .  the script by eric bernt and john jarrell is not focused in such a way that we can care about the characters or the situations they are in .  the big gambit of buying up waterfront property to facilitate the building of a sports center for a nfl team is needlessly confusing .  and of course the common practice of one character being the comic relief of the film becomes painfully obvious here as anthony anderson as allayah's bodyguard , maurice has no comic timing whatsoever .  the best things about the film are its fight scenes .  jet li is a master of these intricate physical battles .  one needs only to see his film " fist of legend " to understand that the man is without peer in the realm of martial art combat .  here , jet is given the opportunity to show off in a way that " lethal weapon 4 " ( jet's u . s . debut ) didn't allow .  unfortunately , a lot of jet's fights are aided with computer effects that detract from his ability and precision .  also " romeo must die " must be noted as having the most singularly useless effect ever committed to film , and that is an x-ray effect that appears three times during the course of the film , showing the effect of bone crushing blows on an opponent .  obviously a homage to the famed x-ray scene from sonny chiba's " streetfighter " , the scenes here are just pointless and interfere with the pacing of the film .  it's as if the film has stopped and a video game has been inserted .  one problem though about the fight scenes .  those that are familiar with hong kong action know that even though the films are fantasies and are as removed from reality as any anime or cartoon .  they do have an internal rhythm to them .  a heartbeat , so to speak in their choreography .  the fight scenes in a hong kong film breath with an emotional resonance .  this is created by the performance , the direction and the editing .  here in " romeo must die " , there is no staccato .  every fight scene , even though technically adroit and amazing becomes boring as the editing both cuts away from battle at hand and simple follows a set pattern .  the rhythm is monotonous .  a hong kong film has a tempo that changes , heightening its emotional impact .  'rmd' is limited to a standard 4/4 tempo , not allowing for any emotional content whatsoever .  a fine example of this difference can be found by examining a couple of jackie chan's films . .  watch the restaurant fight from the film " rush hour " and notice that the context of the fight , while technically amazing is rather flat ( the framing and cut always do not help ) .  now look at the warehouse fight from " rumble in the bronx " .  there you have a heartbeat , and emotional draw that doesn't let the audience catch its breath .  the stops and pauses for dramatic effect work perfectly , causing the viewer to be both astounded and flabbergasted .  here in 'romeo must die' , the fight scenes have no more emotional content or character than any john wayne barroom brawl .  jet li is a grand and personable screen presence .  it's a shame that his full talents were not used to full effect here .  one day filmmakers here in the u . s . will stop making films by the numbers and start to embrace the style and emotion that has made hong kong action pictures such a commodity .  until then , we'll be left with emotionally hollow product like " the replacement killer " and , currently " romeo must die " . 
pos@ john von neumann , progenitor of the computer age and critically important mathematician on the manhattan project , pointed out long ago that there is a great way to explore the cosmos , even without recourse to faster-than light travel .  you send out self-replicating robot ships which explore and radio back information .  it may take decades , centuries , or millennia , but it can be done with achievable technology , and doesn't require a magical faster-than-light drive .  in the fifties , british astronomer fred hoyle improved on this plan by suggesting that it would be better to radio plans for a complex computer and a program for it ; any civilization capable of receiving the transmission could build the computer , which would then engage in a real-time dialog with the aliens , exchanging information and technologies , and hopefully arranging to send back what it had learned .  about thirty-five years ago , the bbc contracted with astronomer/writer fred hoyle and writer frank elliot to create the scripts for a mini-series called a for andromeda .  afa concerned the reception of a hoyle transmission , the construction of a huge computer , the computer's analysis of life on earth , and its creation of an apparently human intermediary to facilitate communication .  she was played with ethereally inhuman perfection by the then-unknown julie christie .  audience response was so strong that the bbc contracted for a sequel , andromeda breakthrough , which played to equally high ratings .  dennis feldman , whose previous credits include the golden child , has never been noted for coherent , well-structured movie scripts ; they start out great , and then disintegrate into a morass of chase and action , mitigated only by the presence of the obligatory beautiful girl .  feldman writes good scenes , but has no idea how to tell a story or write a movie , even with a previous version to use as a model .  now , in species , we have a mundane retread of the andromeda plotline , derailed by a preoccupation with removing the clothes from the leading lady and further ruined by a mediocre attempt to emulate several recent horror films in terms of splatter , gore , and chases .  species features ben kingsley , who is completely wasted in a badly-written portrayal of a feebly amoral scientist .  forest whitaker and alfred molina are also served poorly by the script .  the species story is relatively simple ; we have been radioing information about ourselves and our dna out into space since 1971 , and have been receiving answers for two years .   ( note that , in the 1970's , we really didn't know diddly about the human genome structure , and were hardly in a position to radio out a set of blueprints for human beings .  even today , all we can do is give information about dna and how it works , not a copy of human dna , because we don't have it analyzed yet . )  the answers we get from the unknown alien source are plans for recreating a member of the alien race , and doctor xavier finch , played by ben kingsley , is placed in charge of the attempt .  the script begins to go off the deep end at this point , when the result is a beautiful young girl who can shape-shift into any of several ugly alien life forms .  the first half of the film has something to offer , as " sil , " the alien girl , struggles with her multi-form existence , changing from beauty to lizard to giant cockroach and back again , all while trying to understand her own place in the cosmos .  she seems oddly knowledgeable about human society , with glaring gaps where her social skills should be .  her instincts are to mate and procreate , and some of the best scenes deal with her attempts in this area .  escaping from her birth laboratory in utah , sil is pursued by a team of drafted civilians with orders to find her and kill her .  she goes on an eating binge , spins herself a cocoon , and emerges as an adult , played by natasha henstridge , who goes a long way toward re-creating the sheerly inhuman beauty julie christie achieved in 1960 .  the pursuers : michael madsen is an assassin/exterminator ; forrest whitaker is a convenient empath/psychic , just as though the u . s . government actually had such people on call .  neither is able to do much with the writing and directing provided .  whitaker's role seems to be aimed at making whitaker a male copy of star trek : the next generation's " counselor cleavage . "  the other members of the strike team are played by marg helgenberger and alfred molina .  kingsley and whitaker are both consummate professionals , too good to not work to the best of their abilities ; but the performances donaldson elicited from the rest of the cast are disappointing and bland , and it is apparent that the direction was a bit weak .  h . r . giger's design for the main form of the alien creature is actually a bit boring when we finally get to see it , although previous digital effects were done quite smoothly .  the main fault of species is lack of originality ; it starts out with a wonderful , albeit borrowed , premise , and then doesn't live up to it .  all we get are chase scenes and a few nice sex scenes , with a few monsters tossed in .  there is no buildup of tension and suspense , no climax worthy of the name ; species is just a sequence of " scare " scenes stuck together .  the movie is carried by its chase and sex scenes , but not rescued by them .  on the other hand , as an exercise in sci-fi action/ adventure , it certainly beats the ichor out of judge dredd .  species earns an extra rating point or two for having ben kingsley and natasha henstridge on board , but by and large , it's fun only for those of us who really like this sort of thing .  my personal rating is three stars , but knock one or two of those off if you don't enjoy pretty unclothed ladies and bloodthirsty alien monsters .  mpaa classification : r ( violence , gore , nudity , sex , language )  stars : ben kingsley , michael madsen , forest whitaker , alfred molina , marg helgenberger , natasha henstridge directed by : roger donaldson produced by : frank mancuso jr . and dennis feldman typed by : dennis feldman cinematography : andrzej bartkowiak music : christopher young run time : 108 minutes aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 from mgm , opens 7 july 1995 
neg@ director doug ellin's kissing a fool , released earlier this year , is an aptly titled comedy about two plastic couples housed in an artificial story .  like a sitcom with jokes so lame that it would be impossible to overlay a laugh track on it , the movie meanders along insulting the viewers' intelligence in almost every frame .  the script by james frey and the director is filled with vapid actors who read meaningless lines you've heard before .   ( " i'm not wearing any underwear , " the bimbo tells the famous sportscaster , max , in what she assumes will be a sure-fire come-on line . )  max , chicago's biggest playboy , decides to get married after a whirlwind love affair with sam , short for samantha .  max and sam possess two irritating personalities , and they hold little chemistry for each other or the audience .  max is played without any style by david schwimmer .  schwimmer , whose acting talent is playing characters devoid of personality , makes an unlikely lover .  his costar , mili avital as sam , is cut from the same cloth , so they can be argued to be a matched pair .  after all , people of the same intelligence are naturally drawn to each other , ditto for similar looks , so why shouldn't the personality-challenged be attracted ?  the implausible plot has max asking his best friend , jay ( jason lee ) , to hit on sam as a test .  jay is supposed to try to get her to sleep with him , but stop short of the actual act .  max , being promiscuous by nature , worries that his future bride may have the same need to sleep around as he does .  the idea of flirting with the beautiful sam makes jay so sick that he becomes unable to eat or work .  neither the script nor the actors make this test believable .   " the 64 , 000 question is : how do you know you're with the wrong person so you can avoid wreaking havoc on major parts of your life ? "  jay asks in one of the unsuccessful attempts at adding some seriousness to the film .  finally , there is the film's attempt at physical comedy .  jay's ex-girlfriend natasha ( vanessa angel ) becomes infatuated with jay again once she thinks he is going out with someone else .  natasha rips jay's shirt open after pushing him down onto the sofa .  as she throws her hair on his bare chest , she demands he pull it .  this is supposed to be funny ?  most films have some saving grace .  some bit part was done especially well or some scene managed to be funny even if the rest of the picture wasn't .  kissing a fool , on the other hand , has nothing to recommend it .  kissing a fool runs 1 : 45 .  it is rated r for profanity and sexuality and would be acceptable for most teenagers . 
pos@ plot : a bunch of bad guys dressed up as elvis impersonators rob a vegas casino during a presley convention .  the boys eventually get together to split the money , but as plans change , double-crosses occur , dealing and wheeling goes down and the crew set up for the road .  who's on the up and up , who's the real bad guy and who's gonna get to bang courteney cox are just a few of the questions which will be answered by the rest of this movie .  critique : the funnest movie that i've seen so far this year !  it's got style , it's got tough guys talkin' shite and it's got plenty of bullets to go around .  a definite hunk-a-hunk-a burnin' adventure !  a guy's guy movie through and through , and one that'll set your jollies to high if you dig on the rough stuff .  it's not very original , it goes on for a little too long , but costner and russell make it happen , as two shite-kickin' elvis lovers , who don't stop till they , more or less , drop .  this movie's got some pretty intensive shoot-out scenes , one of the coolest robbery scenarios that i've ever witnessed , featuring several elvises with guns a blazin' and the king's music playing in the background , and a decent helping of double-crosses , sharp dialogue and funny moments .  in fact , even though the cast is filled with many name actors ( b-actors as they might be for the most part ) , most of them do their bit and succeed well in passing the torch onto the next victim .  but the true glue that holds this film together , other than the spirit of elvis himself , is costner and russell , who play their badass characters to the t . sure , russell's been down this road before , but costner surprised me with his nastiness .  i guess he's pissed at all the box-office bombs that he's been in of late , but he sure played a great unstable elvis impersonating robber here .  in the end , the bottom line with this movie is having fun , kickin' ass and making sure there's enough bubblegum around to chew afterwards .  and smoke 'em if you got 'em , folks !  there is also this one really great show-down scene between costner and a cop , that'll have you crackin' up and lovin' it all at the same time .  the violent scenes in this movie are violent and the entire film is wrapped in a soundtrack that'll kick your arse from this end of the theatre to the next .  it should actually come to no surprise to anyone that the director of this movie comes from a music video background , with plenty , and i mean plenty , of camera tricks , cuts and edits , but for this kind of flick , it actually works .  the film is not perfect though , it starts off with a pretty big bang , but then pulls a way of the gun on us , and slows the pace down somewhat in the middle , while characters intermingle and disperse .  i was personally kept in the game despite some soft spots , and enjoyed the overall ride for what it was as well .  and did i mention that courteney cox looked mega-hot in the movie ?  no . . . okay ,  well i just did !  i coulda done without her whole " romance " angle , but to be honest , it doesn't take up much of the film , which is generally covered in blood , explosions , guts and elvis nods .  try to see how many " inside " connections to the king you can guess .  of course , it's no secret that i am quite a big elvis fan myself so please take this whole review with that grain of salt in mind .  i also like these types of " guy " movies a lot , and even though the film doesn't bring much originality to the table , it does offer a pretty coherent story , some nice twists and turns , humor and a big ol' helping of whoop-ass coming straight from costner and russell's respective boots .  probably not a film for everyone , but definitely for those who enjoy the guns , the charismatic bad guys and a fun , if entirely disposable , adventure .  now see how many elvis songs i've used to pun my way through this phony review below .  the elvis songs also recommend this movie !  so whether you're lonesome tonight or any other night , remember to pack the teddy bear with bullets , leave your little sister at home , bring your bossa nova baby and rock out of that jailhouse , cause this movie ain't one to return to the sender .  i really beg of you , whether you're stuck in the ghetto or crying in the chapel , to slap this cinematic ring around your neck and love it tender .  and no suspicious minds either , folks , cause i got stung by this movie , i mean it really shook me up , and unless you're the devil in disguise himself , i think you won't be able to help falling in love with this lucky charm either .  so don't be cruel , don't turn away , don't curl up with your latest flame tonite ( whether she be a hard-headed woman or not ) and surrender to the hound dog of movies that is this film .  it's now or never , folks .  trust me , i did it my way and the heartbreak hotel of crappy movies that i'd seen so far this year is far behind me .  joblo has now officially left the sanity of his mind and this building .  thank you . . . thank  you very much ! !  where's joblo coming from ?  get carter ( 7/10 ) - heat ( 8/10 ) - honeymoon in vegas ( 9/10 ) - payback ( 8/10 ) - reindeer games ( 5/10 ) -reservoir dogs ( 9/10 ) - way of the gun ( 6/10 ) 
neg@ violence is bad .  violence is ugly .  violence breeds yet more violence .  kids , don't try this at home .  this weighty message isn't the only barrier to enjoying brother , but it's certainly one of the largest .  written , directed by , and starring the infamous takeshi kitano ( kikujiro , sonatine ) brother is his first film made outside his familial japan , bringing the yakuza tradition to los angeles .   ( yakuza translated for the average american is the japanese mafia . )  if you piss a " family " member off , or dishonor yourself in any way , the usual punishment is public display of self-mutilation , usually resulting in the loss of limbs .  a definition of dishonor can be anything from making a stupid decision to leaving one family for another .  it would be interesting to know more about where these and other customs come from .  unfortunately the film doesn't give too much of an explanation , assuming its audience is aware of kitano's earlier work .  there are several shots that focus specifically on detailed tattoos that spread across the entire back of the yakuza members , leading one to assume they would be symbolic of something , but you never know what .  then there's a scene in which a man kills himself in front of a rival in exchange for that rival joining the family .  granted , this is one of the best scenes in the movie , but it doesn't make a lot of sense .  instead , the two hours are basically spent watching the following : people go out and shoot each other , talk about it for ten-plus minutes , then go out and do it again .  the consistently repetitive discussion of territory during these moments involuntarily provokes yawning .  there are also plot details thrown in for no identifiable purpose .  all of the sudden yamamoto ( kitano ) has a girlfriend .  he barely speaks to her , treats her like crap , and then sends her away .  another missed opportunity , considering it is such a big deal for kitano to bring his magic to the united states , is the combination of cultures , which rely too heavily on overused stereotypes .  though slow moving , brother does have good elements .  the action scenes are well directed , clearly defined , and interesting to watch .  some of the violence is more hinted at than shown , which produces the luscious squirm that one goes to see such films for .  the actors would be more enticing if they had more to do .  shirase's ( masaya kato ) loud , sarcastic coolness set against yamamoto's quietly threatening attitude is truly an entertaining combination .  their moments together or apart steal the rest of the show .  also to its credit , brother tackles the cause and effect of crime with realism .  a life of crime is easy to get sucked into with the first reward of quick cash .  sure people get rich , but they can also lose just as easily .  it's a great moral , with a great cast , just not much substance to back it up . 
pos@ plot : a human space astronaut accidentally falls upon a planet ruled by apes .  he is taken prisoner along with some other humans , and tries his best to escape his simian captors .  oh yeah , and did i mention that the apes can talk ?  kewl !  critique : despite this film not looking like a " tim burton movie " or its lead human character showing any signs of being a human being himself , i did find myself generally entertained throughout most of this film and do recommend it as fun , summer fare .  although the thing that sets this movie apart from all others is definitely its incredible ape make-up jobs and characterizations .  i mean , i was completely convinced that every single one of these apes was for real !  i also have to " give it up " to all of the actors inside the costumes , not only for waking up at three in the morning every day to get make-up slobbered all over them for 2-4 hours , but for coming through their costumed exteriors and selling us their characters on the screen as well .  i especially enjoyed bonham carter's performance , who i believed to be the most developed character in the entire film ( human or ape ) and tim roth's bad guy , who chewed up scenery and oozed evil in every scene in which he took part .  plot-wise , i liked the beginning of the film , the whole build-up once wahlberg got into the village , the escape and most of the fight scenes , but once things got out into the deserted area ( and the final battle sequence ) , i kinda lost a bit of my interest .  i was much more intrigued by the interactions between the characters and the whole idea of " human beings as animals " then i was about the end battle sequence , which just seemed a bit too typical for this kind of film .  i also hated the " kid " character who just got on my nerves and didn't really care for the way that the battle sequence was resolved ( i won't ruin it here but c'mon guys . . . you  coulda thought of something a little more plausible than that , no ? ) .  but the thing that held this movie back more than anything else was its lead character , his cold demeanor and the zero chemistry that he shared with either one of his inter-species love interests .  this dude didn't seem to give a rat's ass about anyone but himself and i ultimately didn't really care about what happened to him either .  now i'm not sure if this was the fault of the actor or the script , but the film suffered because of it .  visually , the movie was also nice to look at ( especially the apes ! ) , but i definitely expected greater coolness from tim burton .  the " surprise ending " that highlighted the original planet of the apes film back in 1968 , felt a little tacked on here , and despite being interesting , didn't really make all that much sense to me ( unless you look at it from a sequel point of view ) .  so overall , i loved the whole " feel " of the planet , the apes that ruled it , the manner in which they treated the humans , screamed , shouted and reverted the entire evolution chain , but didn't appreciate the film's lack of human character development ( why was kris kristofferson even in this movie ? ) and the fact that its lead male and female humans were just plain boring .  but i would still recommend this film as a fun , summer movie with laughs , creepiness and a really cool premise .  ps : for anyone who has seen the original , i cannot believe that they didn't at least bring back the scene in which the lead human character ( in this case , mark wahlberg ) goes nuts at the world in which he's suddenly been thrust ( " this is a mad house ! " -  type of thing ) .  the guy in this film barely seems to be " put off " by the fact that he's surrounded by apes who can speak english ! !  where's joblo coming from ?  the arrival ( 8/10 ) - battlefield earth ( 7/10 ) - godzilla ( 4/10 ) - instinct ( 6/10 ) - mission to mars ( 3/10 ) - pitch black ( 7/10 ) - ( 1968 ) planet of the apes ( 9/10 ) - sleepy hollow ( 8/10 ) 
neg@ this movie stinks !  although it is professionally crafted and there are some decent performances , the plot is so bad it drags the film into the abyss .  i knew i was in for trouble when , during the opening establishment shots , we see a detailed close-up of warrant officer paul brenner's ( john travolta ) military identification card and it is the wrong color .  this might seem like a minor detail , but anyone who has spent anytime with the military knows that active duty identification cards are green and dependant cards are yellow .  and what about the senior military officer whose uniform shirt is so wrinkled he looks like he is a recruit on his first day of training .  or what about when brenner tells a suspect that , because he is in the military , he doesn't have the right not to answer his questions even though these rights were central to military law well before the miranda decision .  how hard is it to get someone familiar with the military to check these facts ?  now details like this could be overlooked if the underlying story held up , but this story is so full of holes it is painful to sit through .  for example , at the beginning of the film , paul brenner , an undercover army investigator , gets into a gun and knife battle at his off-post houseboat and winds-up killing an arms dealer he had been investigating .  the local police investigating the death are openly hostile to the military and they discover that brenner has been lying to them about the killing .  but instead of arresting him , or at least take him into custody for further questioning , they release him .  duh !  ultimately , brenner gets assigned to investigate the murder and possible rape of the commanding general's daughter , a young captain also assigned to the post .  when brenner finds graphic sex tapes featuring the general's daughter , does he use them to generate a suspect list and begin grilling suspects .  no , his instinct is to suppress them because they might be potentially embarrassing .  eventually , brenner discovers that this murder is related to a violent gang rape at west point eight years earlier .  i won't even go into the totally unbelievable rationale for the army's suppression of this horrendous crime .  i will just mention one final flaw .  brenner is investigating a crime that occurred in georgia .  the rape occurred in west point , which is in new york .  he is under a very tight ( and totally implausible ) 36-hour deadline to solve this case .  he needs to discuss the rape with a psychiatrist at west point .  does he phone the doctor ?  no , he travels ( via some unexplained very fast transport ) to new york to question the psychiatrist in person , and then he returns to georgia ( again by the miracle transport ) , without once worrying about the impact any of this will have on his deadline .  you have been warned , stay away from this one . 
pos@ when a someone journeys to the theater to see a comedy , he always risks having to sit through inanity such as what we recently saw in films like edtv and office space .  it really is too bad that comedies are so hit- and-miss , because when a moviegoer goes in a theater expecting to be amused , it really is a shame when the alleged comedy fails to deliver .  but weep not , dear readers , because the latest comedy out of the hollywood movie mill is nothing less than a sure bet .  austin powers : the spy who shagged me is one of the funniest things i've had the pleasure to see in a long time ; a completely looney , delightful parody of the often pretentious james bond flicks .  if all comedies ( or even half ; or - - what am i saying ?  -- even a fifth of them ) could be this consistently hysterical , i would take up residence at my local multiplex .  even more to this movie's credit is the fact that it is a sequel to the 1997 sleeper/cult hit austin powers : international man of mystery .  the original came out of nowhere ; it was a low-budget , eccentric movie that many expected to flop like a leslie nielsen parody .  all of a sudden it was being quoted by teenagers all over america .  ironically , powers' " yeeeeah baby , yeah ! "  has almost become an icon of the late 90s .  thus another installment was inevitable , but it's also undoubtedly welcome .  the spy who shagged me is one of the most unrestrained , over- the-top comedies i have ever seen in my entire life .  it brings back most of the characters from its predecessor ( even if only briefly ) and adds new ones .  austin powers ( mike myers ) , a swinging hipster from the 60s transported into the 90s has to go back to his own time to get back his mojo ( oh , you'll figure it out ) , which dr . evil ( meyers again ) has stolen .  he enlists the help of a gorgeous secret agent felicity shagwell ( now that his prior sidekick vanessa has been properly disposed of in a hilarious opening sequence ) , played without much distinguishable gusto by heather graham and together they go back to the 60s to defeat dr . evil yet again .  surprisingly , the real star is dr . evil rather than austin .  he gets most of the screen time because he was so popular in the first movie .  perhaps this is true because he is portrayed and written so affectionately .  instead of being the scheming , villainous mad scientist we might expect from a character like this he is a bumbling , often sweet mad scientist wannabe .  the spy who shagged me has much of the same stuff we saw in the original , but that's okay by me because the original left us wanting more .  by the time that one was over we haven't had nearly our share of shag jokes , crude puns and powers' antics and this sequel satisfies our appetites .  even by its conclusions , i'm still not sure i've had my fill of bits like " do you smoke after sex ? "   " i don't know , baby , i never looked . "  this may seem awfully immature of me , but understand that the austin powers series , unlike most of the crap hollywood feeds us these days , is genuinely funny .  i don't know if i've ever laughed harder at any movie than i did during the jerry springer send up or the indubitably hilarious " just the two of us " rendition by dr . evil and his new miniature clone named " mini-me " .  i don't have any pretensions that this is particularly smart social satire or anything of the sort .  indeed there is little beyond the joy a viewer feels when he sees something that is able to entertain him as much as this movie did .  but as far as i'm concerned , that is enough .   ? 1999 eugene novikov &#137 ; 
neg@ dr . alan grant ( sam neill , " jurassic park " ) is becoming disillusioned .  paleontology is no longer the sexy science it once was since the ingen corporation cloned his subject matter .  his lectures bring people interested in his adventures on isla nubla rather than his research and funding dollars are drying up .  when the kirbys ( william h . macy , " fargo " ; tea leoni , " the family man " ) ask him to be their guide for an anniversary flyover of isla sorna ( the notorious site b of " the lost world " ) he's disdainful , but once they wave their checkbook , he reconsiders .  however the kirbys haven't given dr . grant their real agenda in " jurassic park iii . "  of course , we , the audience , have been tipped off , given that the film begins by showing us eric ( trevor morgan , " the patriot " ) , a young boy , and ben ( mark harelik , " election " ) going for a paragliding adventure off that same island that goes awry ( and looks like cheesy rear projection ) .  grant's established back home with a new right hand man , billy brennan ( alessandro nivola , " love's labour's lost " ) on site at a dig in montana sorely lacking funds .  he also pays a visit to old flame dr . ellie sattler ( laura dern , " jurassic park " ) , now married to another with a young son who calls grant 'the dinosaur man' apparently for the sole purpose of dredging her up again for the film's poorly imagined finale .  grant takes billy along on the kirbys trip , which is really an illegal gambit to save their son , that young paraglider .  the couple aren't millionaires , making grant's check bogus , and they're separated as well ( eric was with amanda's new boyfriend , not that that makes much sense ) , meaning we're in for some gooey family dynamics while waiting for the dino dining .  the kirbys hired hands ( and obvious bait ) are a threesome led by mr . udesky ( michael jeter , " the gift " ) .   ( didn't anyone consider that casting michael jeter and william h . macy together and not having them be related was a little odd ? )  as directed by joe johnston ( " october sky , " " jumanji " ) ( spielberg only produced this one ) from a risible script by peter buchman and the " election " team of alexander payne & jim taylor , " jurassic park iii " is nothing more than a quickie monster flick with a couple of new dinos ( a spinosauraus , which goes head to head with the t-rex , and pteranodons ) .  the plot , as it were , is a series of coincidences combined with extreme leaps of faith and a trifecta of stupid cell phone tricks .  the effects are no longer new , and , as shot by television cinematographer shelly johnson , rather murky looking at times .  film editing by robert dalva ( " october sky " ) was presumably done by machete , to keep this down to a 90 minute run time .  i know of no other reason to explain the ridiculous ending which features the survivors confronting a pack of raptors , then being saved by the most ludicrous of logic jumps within a few minutes .  'original' music by don davis just repeats john williams' original themes .  while neill and young morgan attempt to inject some humor and humanity into the proceedings , the rest of the cast are plodding unexceptional .   " jurassic park iii " will probably provide some quick entertainment for those who go into it knowing what to expect , the same crowd who maybe liked " the lost world : jurassic park . " 
pos@ one of the more unusual and suggestively violent films ever made , " se7en " is just a few steps away from brilliance .  however , those few steps away are only a few steps from a level of evil and depravity that few people want to discuss .  the film received mixed reviews upon release , but there's an underlying sinister appeal and intrigue to this that many critics perhaps did not notice .  at times it gets preachy about the horrors it seems to be criticizing , but the script and the ultimate pay-off are excellent .  the shocking conclusion is just as unpredictable as the endings of most films are predictable .  this piece of work is 100% intensity .  it's uncomfortable to watch , yet compelling .   " i want not to look , yet i cannot turn away . "  the story creeps along slowly and deliberately , crafted by visionary director david fincher .  he has experience in tantalizing his audience with information and visions , but not giving away too much too soon .  this is the guy who directed the ominous " alien 3 " .   " se7en " is even more ominous because the threat is real .  it's human and , while the script takes some artistic licence , the way in which the diabolical killer works here is actually realistic .  that is , if a human being could be so intelligent , patient , wealthy , and disillusioned .  after the most bizarre opening credits i've ever seen ( refreshingly different in editing style and musical accompaniment ) , the initial character development takes place .  morgan freeman stars as detective william somerset , a knowledgeable veteran who is ready to give up on his job and the sickness of society .  brad pitt co-stars as detective david mills , the young hotshot who is brand new to this unnamed city and full of fury to catch the bad guys .  these two fine actors give the film its human qualities ( along with the appealing gwyneth paltrow , who plays tracy , mills' wife ) .  however , none of them stands out above the material .  no disrespect intended , but two other actors could have played these parts and the film probably would have been about the same .  an ironic note is that somerset has only a week ( or 7 , that's seven , days ) left on the force to train his young protege .  the title of the picture also refers to the 7 deadly sins , as chronicled by john milton in " paradise lost " --gluttony , greed , sloth , lust , pride , envy , & wrath .  incidentally , i wrote the sins in order of how each victim was found .  it's the last two sins that are the most intriguing and shocking , but i won't give that away .  as i said , this has a great ending and no one should spoil it .  anyway , the brilliant killer sets out to make a statement to the world that these sins will no longer be tolerated and he makes the " sinners " suffer for it .  the two partners stumble over the corpse of a grotesquely obese man .  they learn that he was murdered--forced to eat himself to death .  the killer leaves small clues at this and other murders and , of course , somerset and mills are smart enough to stay with him all the way .  if they didn't , it would be one short movie !  the deliberate pace allows for craftsmanship of detail and story .  we see a lot of blood , but it's not especially violent .  the suggestion of what happens is far more disgusting than anything actually shown--like most of the violence in " pulp fiction " .   " se7en " is gory , graphic , and disturbing , but all the gore is post-death .  still , if you tend to get queasy , don't eat food during this film .  kevin spacey plays john doe , the avenging angel who claims that he's the messenger who will right the wrongs with his teachings .  like many crazy men , he has some fine ideas , but some sick ways of expressing himself .  spacey doesn't appear until the final 30 minutes and also doesn't receive billing in the opening credits .  however , it's his appearance that turns this film upside down and for that he should have gotten an oscar nomination .  a great villain manages to make you either root for him or feel compelled to listen to his ramblings regardless of whether you agree with him or not .  this character is so well written that it's hard to disagree when he says that what he is doing will be remembered by everyone .  no serial killer has ever been so creative .   " se7en " is blatantly unsubtle with its messages about the horrors of the world and it's often a little too depressing .  what it lacks in those areas , it makes up for with believable dialogue , top-notch screenwriting , unexpected twists , and realistic characters .  the technical aspects of the film are unobtrusive .  fincher uses lighting , music , and editing quite well , but his story is always the thrust of the film .  fortunately , we don't find out what happens to mills and somerset after the closing credits ( which are run backwards up the screen ! ) .  it's better to imagine what paths they will follow .  this is not the kind of film you turn away from and quickly forget .  it's got a sinister message and john doe is right about one thing--the evils of the world aren't going to cure themselves .   " se7en " raises some tough questions and it's intelligent enough to allow its audience to answer many of those questions for themselves .  useless trivia--co-stars in 1995's " se7en " , brad pitt and kevin spacey also competed for the 1995 best supporting actor oscar--pitt in " 12 monkeys " , spacey in " the usual suspects " ( for which he won ) . 
neg@ synopsis : in " sooner than you think " america , the future of law enforcement resides in blade squad , a ragtag group of culturally diverse rollerblading cops with jetpacks strapped on their backs .  a dangerous criminal , however , attempts to destroy blade squad after his brother dies while being chased by them .  comments : so , what do an ex-gangbanger turned insubordinate traffic cop , a former prostitute with a substance abuse problem , and a junkie turned dennis rodman wannabe turned cop who crashed four police cruisers all have in common ?  why , they're all members of blade squad , an elite new crimefighting unit wearing black uniforms , rollerblades , and jetpacks !  they also carry video cameras so they can communicate with one another a la the marines in james cameron's aliens .  yes , it's blade squad , the fox network's wednesday night movie of the week .  this " movie , " marking its dubious world premiere today , curiously has a number of guest stars .   " how can a movie have guest stars ? "  you may ask .  well , blade squad is not really a movie so to speak but a 2 hour pilot for a possible tv series packaged as a movie .  blade squad is dumb .  blade squad is loud .  blade squad is obnoxious .  blade squad will probably be a ratings hit and spawn a long-lived tv series .  why not ?  after all , television has given its audience crimefighters with talking cars ( " knight rider " ) , fast helicopters ( " airwolf " ) , and super fast motorcycles ( " street hawk " ) , and viewers have eaten it up in the past .  so , why not crimefighters with jet-powered roller blades ?  to be honest , as a made-for-tv presentation , blade squad is at least watchable .  the film has a relatively large cast of characters , a surprisingly intelligible albeit predictable script , and enough action sequences to keep one half-interested .  i'd imagine adolescent males , probably the target audience of this turkey , would get a kick out of it .  i tried to keep that in mind when i watched blade squad .  i can remember liking " airwolf " and " street hawk " when i was 10 or 11 .  and , although this isn't saying much , blade squad is leaps and bounds better than the last fox network movie i had the displeasure of wasting time on : the insipidly awful generation x ( a huge disappointment considering the comic book's terrific two-year beginning ) .  but , i digress .  despite its limited appeal , blade squad has a lot of kinks to work out if the movie is to become a tv series .  one , it suffers from mtv syndrome : a lot of quick shots and weird angles continuously jar the viewer's senses while a near nonstop generic rock soundtrack blares incessantly in the background .  oh yeah , dylan's " knockin' on heaven's door " and bowie's " i'm afraid of americans " are used here , in rather poor taste .  two , blade squad needs a new crew for the sound .  the substandard sound editing irritated me to no end .  characters' dialogue , at times , sounded choppy and unintelligible .  during one important scene , a song played loudly in the background .  when a character spoke , the song's volume dropped but did not disappear .  as soon as that character finished speaking , the song's volume immediately returned to its original level until the next character spoke .  this sounds trivial , i'm sure , but it distracted me immensely .  finally , this is commercial television .  foul language is not allowed , typically , on commercial television .  thus , don't use foul language in a made-for-tv production because that foul language has to be censored in some manner .  in an early scene of the film , for example , the lead good guy and bad guy have a minor confrontation in the streets .  when the good guy spouts out a bad word , a driver conveniently honks his car's horn off-screen to muffle the word out .  in a " seinfeld " episode , this technique proved funny ; here , it seemed goofy and cut the dramatic tension considerably .  perhaps future writers , if a show is spun out of the movie , could take a cue from marvel comics' 2099 series of comics .  make up a bunch of new bad words for the future .  this way , you don't need a bunch of honking horns or other silly devices to cover up foul language .  compared to the usual crap broadcast tv networks have to offer in terms of movies , blade squad is a suitable exercise in camp .  when compared to , say , a movie studio film , blade squad has a lot in common with a term which shares its initials : bs .   ( review written august 12 , 1998 ) 
pos@ jackie brown entered theaters with little fanfare and a lot of expectation .  even though advance publicity on this one was fairly limited , the audiences waited for the showings with heightened anticipation .  this is , after all , the first movie quentin tarantino has directed since the highly touted pulp fiction .  to say he has been inactive in between would be to tell a falsehood , since he has been involved in such projects as destiny turns on the radio , desperado , four rooms , and from dusk 'til dawn .  he was also called in at the last minute to help punch up the screenplay for crimson tide .   ( i'm willing to wager the debate over which silver surfer is the only true silver surfer was penned by him . )  tarantino contributed on and off screen to these films , but never took the director's helm .  nearly four years since gaining notoriety on the hollywood scene and making john travolta a star once more , tarantino returns with a film he can call his own .  the film opens up with an homage to the graduate , with jackie brown ( pam grier ) on one of those airport people movers as the credits are displayed in front of her .  jackie is a flight attendant for air cabo , which flies back and fourth between los angeles and cabo san lucas .  this makes jackie a convenient cash courier for gun dealer ordell robbi ( samuel l . jackson ) who is currently keeping his money stashed in mexico .  however , while bringing fifty thousand dollars back into the u . s . for ordell , jackie is apprehended by fbi agent mark dargus ( michael bowen ) and atf agent ray nicolet ( michael keaton ) , who catch her not only with the money , but with a bonus of a couple of ounces of illicit drugs .  jackie didn't know they were in the package with the cash , but that's of no consequence to the authorities , who threaten jackie with a couple of years hard time if convicted .  of course , dargus and nicolet are just using the sentence to get jackie to turn over the big fish , ordell .  ordell uses honest bail bondsman max cherry ( robert forster ) to get jackie out of jail , but while max is immediately attracted to her , jackie is more concerned about her immediate safety , since ordell killed the last one of his operatives who got picked up by the police .  sure enough , ordell shows up at jackie's apartment that evening and tries to silence jackie for good , but she " borrows " max's pistol and manages to turn the tables on ordell .  instead of closing the irony circle and relocating a bullet from the pistol's chamber to ordell's head , jackie proposes a deal .  since ordell wants to get his money out of mexico , jackie will get back up to her old tricks and be a courier for him once more , but this time for a more substantial fee : fifteen percent of ordell's half million dollars .  with a gun in his face , how can ordell not agree ?  by itself , this premise might have been interesting enough to carry the film .  however , we are also introduced to a number of double crosses which make us pay attention and think .  jackie claims to be bringing the money in for ordell , but she's also making a deal with the feds as well as with max .  the film throws us off every once in a while by leading us to believe the deal we thought was authentic is actually a sham , but it is in no way done to the extent that we feel jerked around .  instead , it's actually a nice departure from the predictability which is prevalent in so many of today's movies .  at least this film has a little imagination .  most of the performances in jackie brown are above par .  pam grier , of whom i had never taken notice before , plays jackie with a mix of confidence and vulnerability which makes her character believable .  samuel l . jackson has a kind of mesmerizing quality about him as he handles himself in situations where you know he is in total control .  robert forster is thoroughly likable because he comes across as such an honest guy , trying to do his best . .  never mind that he belongs to a profession where sneaking into a guy's apartment to zap him with a stun gun is simply a matter of course .  he's just so down-to-earth , the nature of his job really doesn't occur to us , even when we're shown him bringing a handcuffed woman to prison , or when we see the tools of his trade .  in supporting roles are robert de niro as louis gara , a recently paroled friend of ordell's , and bridget fonda as melanie , one of the girls ordell keeps around town .  unfortunately , de niro is basically wasted as his lines are few and far between , and then they are mostly clipped sentences .  in this film , he's not really de niro , but stereotypical de niro , uttering things like , " little bit , " and " pretty much . "  fonda , on the other hand , plays the slightly spaced-out melanie with satisfactory relish and cuteness , such that even when she is annoying louis , we are taking her side .  as is characteristic of any film in which tarantino has had a hand , the dialog is quick and snappy .  it grabs our attention and is actually interesting , and in many respects , this makes jackie brown a film which needs few visuals ; the lines are a form of art in and amongst themselves .  don't count tarantino out when it comes to using the camera , however .  there's a scene where max is unwittingly watching a dry run of a money exchange , and he's not really sure what's happening , but by composing the scene just so , his realization of what's going on is felt simultaneously by the audience .  we look at the screen and think , " gee , that's clever , " and then think the same thing about how the film induced us into that wonderful feeling of catching on .  although tarantino isn't afraid to drag out a shot for dramatic effect , it unfortunately works to varying degrees in this film .  there are shots where a character is simply driving , and we watch this person and somehow get an idea of what is going on in his or her head .  this is a tribute to both direction and acting .  however , there is at least one other scene where we follow jackie through a mall , and she is looking for something ; desperately looking for something .  we get the idea of the frantic nature of her search , but we follow her for so long that we end up not really caring about what she's looking for , but instead hoping she'll just stop .  overall , viewing jackie brown is time spent well .  some flap has already been made about the language used in the film , but it's really not much worse than many of the other movies out there today .  in fact , one might even be able to say that the way in which these " offensive " words are employed almost cause them to parody themselves and therefore transcend their own offensiveness .  go see the film and see what i mean . 
neg@ billy crystal reappears in yet another high concept comedy .  he tries to infuse some life into it , but it gets bogged down with sentimentality and a lack of sophistication .  sammy ( billy crystal ) is a struggling agent at the end of his ropes .  he's separated from his wife , serena ( kathleen quinlan ) , and down to his last serious client . . . in a low-budget film shooting in romania .  but in a turn of bad luck , sammy wrecks his car . . . only  to be mysteriously saved by a giant ( gheorghe muresan ) .  but this giant has a heart of gold .  he leads a solitary life , helping out the monks at a local monastery .  his only longing is for his long lost love , lilianna ( joanna pacula ) , who has since moved to america .  sammy , seeing a golden ticket , convinces max to become an actor ( represented by sammy , of course ) , and come back to america .  and so sam and max bounce from pathetic job to pathetic job , with sammy dangling a meeting with lilianna as a carrot before max's nose .  but slowly sammy's deceptions begin to haunt him .  but will he develop a conscience before the innocent max becomes disillusioned .  the humor in my giant isn't the world's greatest .  mostly , it falls under the category of " boy . . . he's  so big ! " ,  and that can only go so far , no matter how hard the talent tries .  still , its slightly amusing parts are longed for when the movie gets bogged down in sappy moments .  the film's best moment ( and that's not saying much ) is a bit part by steven seagal , playing himself .  between executive decision and this , all of seagal's best roles have been cameos .  maybe he should consider a change of work : steven seagal , the character actor !  gheorghe muresan isn't a natural actor at all , and his thick cotton-mouthed accent certainly doesn't help .  in fact the only thing he adds to the role is his immense stature .  originally , the concept was designed several years ago for andre the giant .  andre also had a hefty accent , but he displayed a knack for comedy in the princess bride . . . something  muresan should have studied for some pointers .  why does billy crystal continually get caught in these pathetic comedies ?  he's proven that he can be much funnier than these formulaic films allow him to be , and yet , like a glutton for punishment , he keeps coming back .  that doesn't mean we have to . 
pos@ -- comedy , rated pg , runs about 1 : 40 -- starring : john goodman , kathy moriarty , and a bunch of teenagers -- directed by joe dante and written by charles hass --  summary : lawrence woolsley ( john goodman ) brings his new horror film mant !  to premiere in key west during the height of the cuban missile crisis .  he hopes to capitalize on the tense moment by providing an escape for the town .  we see most of the events through the stories of four teenagers and how life affects them .  quick and easy review : i really enjoyed matinee .  the mixture of comedy and tension blended nicely .  unlike many comedies this film tries , and succeeds , in getting past the stage of doing anything for a laugh .  the makers of the film also cared about telling an intelligent story .  the performances of all the principals are right on the mark , particularly john goodman as the schlock master .  so i would definitely recommend this film to anyone looking for a light hearted , yet interesting way to spend a couple of hours .  longer , more detailed review : [beware of spoilers]  the primary reason i enjoyed this film was , that while being a comedy , the film also had an intelligent story to tell .  too many comedies today subscribe to the the notion that a comedy need only make you laugh .  you watch the movie , laugh a lot , leave the theatre and take nothing with you .  matinee is not like that .  i left the picture thinking about what i would do faced with the cuban missile crisis .  i found myself wondering what would happen to the characters of the film .  but most importantly , i found myself caring about what would happen to the characters .  the comedy of the film centers around goodman , his character , and the film he brings to key west .  i believe that goodman is one of the finest comedic actors in the business today .  he is highly expressive both physically and vocally .  i felt he at least deserved an oscar nomination for his work in barton fink .  the other characters are often lost in a scene with him due to his commanding nature , however , while the star , goodman is actually not at the center of the film .  the movie is really the story of the four teenagers , discovering who they are and what they want , against a background where at any minute it could all end .  i thought the kids reaction were highly realistic .  they tried to block it out , they tried to escape from the concerns of their world .  unfortunately it kept creeping back in , particularly with the fear , and the chaos of the time .  while the comedy centered on goodman , and the drama on the teens , there was a great deal of overlap .  several aspects of the panic are shown in a humorous light .  one example is a scene where people are fighting each other for the the last cans and boxes of food in a grocery store .  if you think about it the threat of nuclear annihilation seems hardly to be the backdrop for a comedy , but it works here .  another reason i like this film is that i like b- science fiction movies .  one of my favorite films to go watch is plan 9 from outer space .   ( note i did not say it was one of my favorite movies , but one of my favorite to see . )  while mant !  never got made , many films like it were , and mant !  serves mostly as dante's homage to the b-films he loves .  so again i would like to recommend matinee to anybody looking for a good , humorous story .  this isn't a gag film like many other comedies but an intelligent , well-thought out , film about real people with real problems told in an often hilarious way .  enjoy ! 
neg@ the best thing about , " lake placid " is that it's only 80 minutes long and when it's over you're glad that you didn't waste more than an hour and a half of your time .  it's nothing more than a bad rip-off of , " jaws " ( and i think that's being kind . )  it was written by david e . kelly ( " ally mcbeal " ) as a horror-comedy but fails at both , miserably .  i was never scared and i think that i only laughed once .  the crocodile even fails in comparison to the snake in , " anaconda . "  the plot begins when a man is eaten in half by the giant crocodile in black lake in maine .  that brings the local sheriff ( brendan gleeson ) and a fish-and-game warden ( bill pulman ) to investigate .  also , a paleontologist ( bridget fonda ) from new york is sent to look at a tooth and an eccentric millionaire/crocodile lover ( oliver platt ) flies in because he wants to swim beside the beast .  soon there is tension between everybody because half the people want to kill the croc and the other half want to save it .  there's also an eccentric old lady ( betty white ) who lives by the lake and has a few secrets .  as i mentioned before kelley and director steve minor ( h20 ) don't go for a serious approach towards the material but they also don't have anything sly or satirical or witty to say either .  the betty white character is completely unfunny and none of the other characters are really that interesting , they're all basically idiots .  if they had any brains the croc wouldn't have been that much of a challenge to catch and they wouldn't have put themselves in half of the situations that they did .  but then again , if they were smart there wouldn't be a movie .  basically , " lake placid " is best undiscovered . 
pos@ based on the relatively unknown ( in comparison to spider-man ) marvel comic book , blade tells the story of half-vampire half-human ( played by wesley snipes ) who was born of a vampire's latest meal .  now swearing vengeance against all vampires , blade hunts them all .  his latest challenge is his biggest though . . . he  must stop the vampire deacon frost ( played by stephen dorff ) from summoning the blood god and turning the rest of the world into vampires .  admitedly , comic books are one of the least appreciated mediums , often viewed as juvenile by most standards , even seen as illiterate by some .  judging by a series of poorly recieved ( financial and critical ) comic book based films ( such as batman and robin , steel , barb wire , the crow : city of angels , and the list goes on ) , one would come to the conclusion that comic books are the worst medium to translate into film .  to some degree , i agree with this sentiment .  having read comic books since the age of nine ( i'm 21 right now ) i can count the number of good comic book based movies ( not including japanese manga ) one hand : 1 : the crow ( 1994 ) , 2 : batman ( 1989 ) , 3 : superman , 4 : the mask , and now , #5 , blade .   ( " men in black " is not on this list because it is an extreme deviation from the original comic book )  why is this ?  for the most part , it is because the filmmakers understand  the comic book medium and come up with an appropriate atmosphere to match .  the crow and batman comics call for a dark gothic atmosphere , which the director provided .  the mask features a wacky superhero with off the wall antics , which the casting and cg effects reflect .  superman  is not over the top with colour and flash , and the film reflects this .  blade uses common notions of vampires and incorporates them into the film , creating an appropriate atmosphere .  this is in stark contrast to joel schumacher's contrived vision in batman and robin , reflecting the dated atmosphere in the 1960's television show .  batman and robin proved that the director failed to realize one fundamental fact : comics have grown up , and so has the audience ( i'm working on a scathing review of batman and robin and will post it up when i'm ready ) .  which brings me back to blade .  although he may be a familiar character to some , due to his appearances in the spider-man animated show on fox , one will find no single trace of the warm-and-fuzzy vampire hunter as depicted in the cartoon .  the film depicts a vicious vampire killer that  uses every single means at his disposal to reach his ends .  the end results are not pretty by any means .  the story elements work very well -- for a comic book story .  screenwriter david goyer ( who also wrote the crow ) incorporates interesting elements of vampire lore , using science to explain many of the ideas often dismissed in vampire films .  this is presented through karen , a hematologist portrayed by n'bushe wright .  this leads to inventive use of standard medical treatments to kill vampires .  add this  to the neat little gadgets that blade uses ( including a titanium sword complete with an " anti-theft device " ) , and one has an interesting premise .  however , the film works best as an action film .  actor wesley snipes has  an extensive background in martial arts ( most of which comes from capoeira , a brazillian form incorporating flashy kicks ) , choreographing every single move .  proving that quick , flash cutting edits are no substitute for choreographed fight sequences ( see batman and robin for a  good example of that ) , wesley snipes dazzles the audience with some incredible fight scenes .  regardless , this film is far from perfect .  the film suffers from at least one major plot hole , regarding the summoning of the blood god .  the ritual requires that a number of pure blood vampires are standing on  marked squares , yet one of them is viciously murdered , allowing the ritual to pass ( and the murdered vampire is later shown standing on the square ) .  obvious continuity errors also surface , especially during a scene where deacon frost takes a drag on his cigarette and is not exhaling it in the next frame ( there is no trace of smoke either ) .  much of the special effects are not that spectacular either .  while vampire disintegration scenes are intriguing to watch , other cgi ( computer generated imagery ) effects are almost slapped together , which is surprising when given the amount of time the film was given to be released ( the film's release date was pushed back multiple times ) .  scenes with computer generated blood look extremely fake , knocking the believability factor down a few notches ( but then , i'm really hard to impress ) .  the film's r rating comes from gory violence , but the lack of  realism made me wonder why it got such a rating ( for realistic violence ,  watch " saving private ryan " ) .  the overuse of cgi in films has made me yearn for the days of director george romero and makeup wizard rob bottin , both pioneers in the art of gore without extensive use of cgi .  still , scenes involving non-cgi special effects do surface ( and look much more impressive ) , such as one particularly gruesome scene where a vampire tries to use blade's sword without deactivating the " anti-theft device " .  wesley snipes is the saving grace behind what would have otherwise been a muddled mess .  while not talking much , he is a grand physical presence , leaving other comic book superheroes in the dust .  a decent ( by comic book film standards ) storyline also helps . 
neg@ sometimes i wonder just what the censors are thinking .  take this film , " naked killer " , among it's ingredients are heavy doses of violence , rape sequences , straight and lesbian sex scenes and what our system calls " coarse language " .  but what do those intelligent people at the censorship bureau choose to remove in case someone will get offended ?  one word - penis .  that's it .  in spite of everything else in the movie the one thing that the censors decide is too much is " penis . " .  it really restores you're faith in the system , huh ?  anyway , that's just a side point .  when naked killer was released in the local independent cinemas around melbourne , it was advertised ad nausuem as a hip , cool , controversial thriller .  what they forgot to mention was that it isn't very good .  the plot involves male cop tinam ( simon yam ) , investigating a series of brutal murders .  while getting a haircut he meets and finds himself attracted to a girl named kitty ( chingmy yau ) , who , after extracting revenge on the man who killed her father , falls in with professional killer sister cindy ( svenwara madoka ) .  realising kitty has potential , cindy decides to train kitty in several unusual and ridiculous ways and gives her a new identity .  however in the course of his investigation tinam ( who believed kitty had disappeared ) , runs into her again , but isn't quite sure if it's her .  to complicate matters the actual serial killlers , princess and baby , who a former students of cindy , and have been told to kill their old master and her new student .  from then the action ensues . . .  all in all , this is not a well done movie .  the script is awful , the direction all over the place , the editing is jerky and confusing and the subtitling is surprisingly poor .  however the are a few stand alone pieces that do entertain .  the shoot out in the car park is almost woo-like in adrenaline .  the fight scenes are energetic and i guess it must get a few points for trying something a little different .  let me put this way , if you like action - get something else , if you like strong women in movies - get something else , if you have do decide between this and " black cat " for your hong kong female action - don't get either .  even for curiosity value it just isn't worth it .  let's face it - if ever the was a movie that became popular on it's subject alone , this is it . 
pos@ dreamworks pictures presents a jinks/ cohen company production kevin spacey annette bening " american beauty " thora birch allison janney peter gallagher mena suvari wes bentley and chris cooper co-producers stan wlodkowski alan ball music by thomas newman costume designer julie weiss film editor tariq anway chris greenbury production designer naomi shohan director of photography conrad l . hall , a . s . c .  produced by bruce cohen & dan jinks written by alan ball directed by sam mendes   " both my wife and daughter think i'm this gigantic loser .  and they're right .  i have lost something .  i didn't always feel this sedated . "  with that piece of dialogue , we are fully introduced to lester burnham ( kevin spacey ) , a 42 year old man trapped within his own life .  lester works for an advertising agency .  his growing dissatisfaction with his job is only one of the mid-life crisis he is suffering .  estranged from both his wife and his daughter , lester starts to crack under the stress .  his life becomes nothing more than a series of mastubatory fantasies , and sullen apathy .  carolyn burnham ( annette bening ) , is the prototypical career woman/ homemaker .  she carefully tends her rose garden , decorates her home with the best furnishings .  but inside she is desperate .  unsuccessful at her profession as a real estate agent , she drives herself into states of denial and self loathing that only feed her growing resentment towards her family .  the third member of this anti-family is jane burnham ( thora birch ) , lester and carolyn's daughter .  a young girl going through the typical stages of adolescence , but having to also come to terms with her families growing dysfunction .  this funny ( and frightening ) slice of life is refreshingly simple .  not one character is given less than is needed to identify him or her .  some of the most telling characters are those that serve to highlight other characters .  most notably is barbara fitts ( allison janney ) , the almost catatonic wife of retired marine colonel fitts .  she has almost no dialogue , and seems to be either recovering from a stroke or suffering from one .  colonel fitts ( chris cooper ) is an angry and frightened man .  his rage directed almost singularly at his son , ricky ( wes bentley ) who has just moved with his family to the same neighborhood as the burnham's .  in fact they are the next door neighbors .  anymore detail into the personalities of these marvelously diverse characters would deprive one of the many pleasures and surprises to be had in " american beauty " .  alan ball , who was the co-executive producer of the hit tv series " cybil " and creator of the new sitcom " oh grow up " , has fashioned one of the most insightful and expertly tuned screenplays to have hit the screen in the past ten years .  not one character in this film rings falsely .  and the depth of personality in each , is achingly honest and insightful .  the plot detailing the last year in the life of a man as he tries to find his own self worth is so resoundingly cliched and at the same time original as to bring to mind such marvelous film work as " the graduate " or " lolita " .  kevin spacey turns in one of this years most pragmatic performances .  his lester burnham is an everyman caught up in the middle of a life that is spiraling into old age .  finally unable to deal with the lost soul that he has become , lester tries to return to his youth .  he quits his job ( actually blackmailing his employer for one year's salary ) , starts smoking pot , fantasizes about his daughter's girlfriend angela ( mena suvari , in a marvelous performance here ) , starts working out , and finally takes a job at the local fast food outlet .  mr . spacey's performance is so remarkably subtle and ingenuous , that we can be certain that come oscar ? time , we can be assured to see him name among the five nominees .  annette bening also turns in what may be the best performance of her career .  carolyn burnham is a woman who has become so insecure as to be caught up in maintaining the facade of normalcy .  unable to cope with her growing disillusionment , she forces herself to maintain her demeanor , driving her further and further into desperation , adultery and possibly murder .  ms . bening makes the character of carolyn so compelling as to be identifiable to almost anyone .  the slow and methodical turn from happy home maker to charnel house martha stewart is too frightening to express in words .  thora birch holds her own against the talents cast with her .  jane burnham is both an innocent girl caught up in what is a dysfunctional family , and a rebellious child ready to abandon them at any moment .  her growing distrust and isolation from her family is something that many parents should view as a warning .  she is the prototypical trophy child .  when carolyn praises her daughter after a performance by her cheerleading team ( " i'm so proud of you , honey .  you didn't screw up once ! " ) , the bitterness and resentment are palpable .  thora birch is a young actress to watch .  praise must also go to chris cooper who brings yet another angry father role to life with depth and resonance .  colonel finn is a man in complete denial .  his military upbringing masking a desire he is too repulsed to even comprehend .  wes bentley as ricky finn is fine as the enigma .  the boy next door who may be more foe than friend .  a deceitful and calculating young man , whose voyeuristic proclivities mask a deeper and more profound understanding of life than any of the adults around him .  mr . bentley's performance is the one troublesome note in the film .  that is simply because the character is such a grand and complete liar , that one almost faults the performance for it .  director sam mendes handles all of the particulars of the cast and the settings with a sure and composed style that is neither intrusive nor subtle .  scenes of carolyn walking through the rain , carry an ominous fission that calls attention to the emotions of the character .  the subtle cinematography by conrad hall is wonderful , capturing the season in all of it's harsh beauty ( fall has never looked so inviting , yet depressing ) .  every nuance of " american beauty " begs it's audience to think and examine .  it is a film that will be discussed and debated for years to come .  and well it should , as it is simply one of this years best . 
neg@ as a hot-shot defense attorney , kevin lomax ( keanu reeves ) has a special talent for picking juries that will ultimately acquit his clients .  he is also an excellent judge of character , knowing just which strings to pull to sway the jury while breaking down a potentially damaging witness's testimony .  and , on top of that , he's a damn good trial lawyer .  in the opening scene , it is obvious that the defendant that he represents is guilty , but it doesn't hamper lomax's desire to creatively squeeze his client through the doors of reasonable doubt , thereby getting an acquittal .  his unblemished record of victories soon captures the attention of one of the most prestigious firms in the country , headed by john milton ( al pacino ) .  he is brought to their headquarters in nyc , where he immediately impresses milton , and is subsequently offered a full-time position as head of their newly-created criminal law division .  lomax is soon given the case of his life .  he must defend a real estate tycoon who has been charged with a triple homicide .  the draw of fame and his desire to prove just how good he really is begins to isolate him in his own hell .  he works late , defends the guilty , pledges his soul to his firm , and begins to neglect his smart but fretful wife , mary ann ( charlize theron ) .  but what starts off as a promising john grisham-like story about conscience-stricken lawyers takes an abrupt detour as supernatural forces begin to tinker with the story .  it begins like a typical parable where a small-town boy makes it big , but then has to balance his sense of self against the allure of money , power , and greed .  but milton is far more than just a corrupt partner of the firm .  quite literally , he is the devil in disguise , and as the movie progresses , he reveals some uncanny talents that one could have only if he had sold his soul long ago .  freaky and frightening things begin to happen , and after much of the film has elasped , milton's horrifying intent is finally revealed .  the movie tries to give us two separate and distinct acts .  the first involves the comeuppance of lomax as a big-city trial lawyer .  the second focuses on milton and his ulterior motive for employing lomax .  unfortunately , the two never mix well into a cohesive story , and what we get are two underdeveloped stories that rely too much on one shaky revelation to tie them together and an impressive production piece to give it an underlying atmosphere .  granted , the film is very handsome-looking .  you'll enjoy the final scene where the wall mural seemingly comes to life during a heated speech given by pacino .  you'll also like the images of power and temptation expressed through the fleshy and flashy parties .  you'll also feel the loneliness and insanity that sets in with mary ann , knowing that her husband is slowly drifting away .  this was one of the better storylines , but unfortunately , is only a sub-plot .  as with all thing's involving the devil , you can expect nothing but the worst .  in the first few scenes , reeves anchors the film , but then slowly drifts into the background .  his path from self-vanity to self-consciousness is never fully explored .  his actions seem arbitrary , and his reasons for them not fully known .  pacino's comical portrayal is spirited , but the vanity of his character begins to shift the focus of the movie .  there is another plot or two that is introduced , but never gets revisited .  the focus seemed inconsistent throughout , and the final payoff seemed quick and cheap .  this movie tries to be horrifying , thrilling , and dramatic all at the same time .  however , while the devil's advocate strives to get noticed , ultimately it makes very little impression at all . 
pos@ alien 3 is the only alien film i have seen in theaters .  i saw it when i was 13 years old , and i must admit that i didn't like it .  of course , i was expecting aliens again , and i believe this was my fault .  in order to appreciate alien 3 , you need to see aliens , but you also have to wipe away all the expectations from its predecessor .  james cameron's aliens was an action film , and many people consider it the best in the series .  i am among that group , but alien 3 is an extremely entertaining film , which critics have bashed for its originality .  many thought the final chase scene went on for too long , and many others thought that the film was too much dialogue and not enough action .  both are untrue , because the film has quite a bit of action , and the dialogue was essential and well-written .  as for the chase sequence , it was long , but not overly long , creating quite a bit of suspense from confusion .  perhaps watching alien 3 on video helped .  on the big screen , i was overwhelmed by something i normally didn't see .  it was a very dark film , and the language was extremely harsh .  i had always figured the alien series to rely on smart dialogue instead of moronic profanities .  don't get me wrong--i'm not saying films should eliminate swearing , but when a film substitutes dialogue with these profane remarks , it gets rather distracting .  however , since seeing it again , i realize that the swearing is mainly just an aspect of the restrained hatred in the characters .  as a result , alien 3's only flaw ( albeit a major one ) is the underdeveloped characters .  we never really care about any of them , and i get the feeling that many scenes were cut in order to shorten the length of the movie .  there were only two characters i liked , and of course one was lt . ripley ( sigourney weaver ) , although we have gotten to know her through two other films .  the other character was dr . clemens ( charles dance ) , but because we like him , the inevitable occurs .  alien 3 begins exactly where aliens left off .  the prologue of alien 3 is a pure cinematic achievement by director david fincher , who had only directed music videos before his chance with this alien entry .  without using a single line of dialogue ( unless you count computer warnings ) , fincher sets up the entire film .  an impressive aspect of this is that fincher only shows a few seconds of film before cutting to a title card .  we see lt . ripley and the little girl in their cryogenic compartments . . .   ( title ) . . .  a shot of an alien egg . . .   ( title ) . . .  alien legs stretch up into the air . . .   ( title ) . . .  and so on and so on .  during these first ten minutes , i learned everything i had to in order for alien 3 to proceed .  it's quite a remarkable opening , and one which will remain in my mind for a long time .  because of this face-hugger which has been hatched aboard the vessel from aliens , the hypersleep containers are sent into an escape pod , and sent down to the nearest planet : fiorina fury-161 , an ore refinery which has been turned into a maximum security prison .  however , the face-hugger managed to attach itself to one of the cryo-tubes , and is sent down with the escape pod .  unfortunately , during the landing , all but one of the survivors from aliens is killed .  ripley is discovered by some of the inmates and taken back to the refinery .  of course , you need a carrier for this face-hugger , and it attachs itself to the dog which came with the team of inmates .  ripley is revived and asks to see the ship .  after seeing a mysterious acid-eaten section , ripley asks to see the dead bodies , and then have them cremated .  this cremation scene is one of the most powerful and impressive of all the alien films .  featuring a monologue from dillon ( charles s . dutton ) , a prisoner who has found god , the movie cuts back and forth from the ceremony to the dog's demise .  it's one of the most memorable moments , as the speech reflects exactly what is going on with the dog .  and this is where alien 3 succeeds .  fincher normally injects a lot of symbolism into his films , and i can easily see him becoming the next stanley kubrick or alfred hitchcock ( in fact , he is the mixture of both ) .  fincher knows exactly what to film and how to film it , and i figure that he will be one of the few directors with complete control over his films .  alien 3 is riddled with symbolic speeches and metaphorical images .  by doing so , fincher creates some of the best scenes in the entire alien franchise .  many people have criticized fincher's filming of the death scene of ripley ( i reveal nothing by saying this ) as looking too fake , but i enjoy and relish in the portrayal .  showing ripley fall in slow motion is a nice touch , but by actually not showing her hit the vat of iron , a great deal of symbolism is derived .  i feel that it would have spoiled the mood of the entire film if they had actually shown her splash into the molten iron .  however , most people seem to want to witness ripley die ( which creates a paradox , as she is the character i didn't want to see die ) .  why she is killed is one of the surprises of the film , and i don't plan on spoiling that in this review .  >from every alien film comes several memorable moments which seem to stick with you forever .  in alien , it was , of course , the moment the alien burst out of kane's stomach .  in aliens , it was the showdown between alien and ripley in a machine .  alien 3 has several , but most memorable is the terrific shot involving the alien and ripley .  ripley is pushed up against a wall , and the alien stands inches away from her .  why it doesn't kill her is a shocker , which later leads to a surprise ending .  fincher apparently loves to use close-ups of actors' faces ( michael douglas and the clown face-off in the game in the same style ) , and by shaving off the actors' hair , the only thing we have to look at is their faces .  many critics didn't like all the actors being bald , but it makes complete sense when taken in context of the plot .  most of alien 3 works when you take it in context of the story , but when you try to compare it to its predecessors , fincher's turn seems a bit gloomy and dark , though that's not always a bad thing .  the plot is pretty much a rehash of the first two films , with some major twists .  again , we are setup with several different characters , and one by one , they are picked off .  however , while the first two had tons of arsenal ( especially cameron's film ) , alien 3 takes place on a planet devoid of human life except for this run-down prison .  as a result , no weapons are to be found .  this creates a lot of tension , although i must admit that fincher could have added a lot more suspense .  as an alien film , alien 3 is the worst of the series , but by itself , it is an extremely well-made motion picture , with a lot more merits than not .  the unfortunate thing surrounding this second sequel is the one-dimensional characters .  i never was really emotionally involved on screen because most of the characters are hardcore criminals whom i really could care less about .  despite this , ripley was the central figure , and that's what is important .  we care for her , even though she began to act just like one of the guys .  again , the technical side of this film is remarkable , and better than the two previous versions .  while cameron's version was a pumped up action film with massive artillary , fincher uses brilliant camera angles , terrific lighting , and moody sets .  the cinematography , by alex thomson , is very well done , with a terrific chase sequence towards the end of the movie .  the confusion of the ending draws the viewer in , as we are just as confused as the actors who are being chased around .  the yellows , reds , and oranges of the lights create a dark mood , and by themselves create a lot of suspense .  shadows dance on the walls , and yet those shadows could easily be the alien .  the alien is different from its predecessors this time around , and the swiftness of this alien is quite intense .  the camera likes to take up the perspective of the alien , racing after the characters .  the sets are quite incredible , which are reminiscient of the nostromo from alien .  the narrow corridors and labrynthine hallways is well constructed .  the sets appear to be in the future , but not too far in the future .  one of the set pieces even aids in the destruction of the alien ( nothing surprising there ) .  sigourney weaver turns out yet another good performance , equaling her portrayal of ripley in aliens .  she was snubbed at the oscars for this one , mainly because the film was a critical bomb .  her reactions are far more realistic in this film , with her crying over the loss of the little child she risked her life saving in her previous encounter .  it's quite touching really .  charles s . dutton is very strong in his performance as one of the inmates , and i was on the brink of actually caring for him .  charles dance turns in a nice low-key performance , and as a result , i cared for him immediately .  lance henriksen makes a brief appearance as bishop ii , but he was more entertaining in aliens .  the rest of the cast is pretty stale , though pete postlethwaite sticks out due to his recent turns in the usual suspects and the lost world .  alien 3 is rated r for strong violence and language , and sex .  although it has its flaws , alien 3 is highly entertaining with rich symbolism .  this film reminds you how much fun it is to spot metaphorical images throughout a movie .  while kubrick may have a moral message throughout his films , fincher relies on cinematic devices to bring his meanings out .  it's a film like fincher's which reminds us that it is okay for a film to sacrifice quality for quantity ( the final scene ) .  in fact , it tells us that we , as a society , have become too critical of things which may happen to look a little " fake . "  whenever something looks fake on screen , we immediately point it out as a mistake .  but perhaps it isn't a mistake . 
neg@ birthdays often cause individuals to access their lives .  are we doing what we want to be doing ?  what happened to our dreams ?  with the new millennium , our collective big birthday , just around the corner , some people are sensing a certain dissatisfaction with their existence .  the old standbys of traditional religion and science aren't doing it for many anymore and they're looking for something else .  we'll be seeing more and more films with a metaphysical theme over the next few years .  ricky hayman ( jeff goldblum ) is having a career crisis .  the programming director for the good buy home shopping network , he's going to be fired unless sales increase dramatically .  new producer kate newell ( kelly preston ) is supposed to whip things into shape .  when the two are fixing a flat , they almost run down new age pilgrim " g " ( murphy ) .  g wanders onto the television set and connects with the viewers by telling them that they don't really want all that commercial crap .  in some unexplained manner , this causes sales to sour .  ricky is saved .  the movie tries to be too much at once and fails at it all .  it's not an over-the-top comedy or a heart-warming message of humanity .  it _is_ a mish-mosh of poorly directed scenes made even worse by insipid dialog .  i am willing to put up with preaching from a film , but the messages here are old hat .  you should take time to smell the roses .  selling your soul for cash is a bad idea .  golly .  i'm glad i saw the movie .  i never would have thought of these .  the opportunity to poke fun at the goofy products is mostly missed .  when g takes a chainsaw to the set , there's an obvious chance for murphy to be hilarious .  it doesn't happen .  the bits are so subdued and overly-long that there's only a hint of laughter from the audience .  murphy has changed his roles in recent years and not for the better .  there are hints of promise in this one .  the only time the film picks up even a little is when his shaved-headed character in the long flowing white caftan shows up on screen .  the others are horrendous .  goldblum has episodes of brilliance in his career , but here he seems to have been replaced with a lifeless pod from his " invasion of the body snatchers " .  his relationship with kate makes no sense .  they move from antagonism to love somewhere off screen .  preston is as uninteresting as she could possibly be .  somewhere hidden deep inside of this film is about ten minutes of value .  an attempt to satirize stupid television , we get a self-parody instead . 
pos@ in 1912 , a ship set sail on her maiden voyage across the atlantic for america .  this ship was built to be the largest ship in the world , and she was .  she was also build to be one of the most luxurious , and that she was .  finally , she was built to be unsinkable and that unfortunately she was not .  to get a ticket for this voyage you either : spent a life's savings to get to america to start life anew , were part of the upper class and had the money to spare , or finally were lucky enough to have a full house in a poker match by the docks like jack dawson .  jack dawson makes the trip , and happens to be at the right place at the right time .  rose dewitt bukater , a first class passenger , climbs the railings at the aft of the ship with thoughts of jumping .  thus is started a tale of romance and intrigue , and a tale of death and tragedy . . .  this movie is about a tragic event that took place a great many years ago , an even that should not be taken lightly as any other bit of historical trivia .  the movie titanic shows what happened , maybe not with a 100% degree of accuracy , but it still shows it very realisticaly .  now the titanic is both a story on its own and a backdrop for a story .  it serves as both admirably , brining forth an interesting story that although simple in its most simple premise is very captivating .  this movie is very emotional simply because of what it is , but that alone is not enough .  the story is brought out with a certain style that makes is so much more emotional and so much more effective .  movies such as this will not be forgotten all too quickly and unfortunately then are not something that is produced by hollywood with any great frequency .  the attention to detail that was paid is remarkable .  the whole premise for the telling of the story is interesting , with the showing of brand new footage from the wreck of the titanic adding much flavor to an already good movie .  part of the magical chemistry behind this story is the acting , and for this movie its extremely good acting from the whole cast .  the performances put in by the main stars is something to be admired .  the characters were played out so memorably that both leonardo dicaprip and kate winslet should receive at the least nominations for their roles .  looking at the acting done in the movie it seems as if they aren't acting but are actually the characters in the movie .  the casting for the movie could really have been better , in my humble opinion that is .  one character that will most likely not be mentioned by any other review or commentary about this film is that of the ship itself .  yes , you read correctly , the ship is a character .  how is the titanic a character ?  you ask well simple , a ship had a certain character about it and as most sailors and boats men will tell you .  this character is everything about the ship from its specifications to its luxuries and the titanic was no stranger to this .  mr . cameron brings the ship to life in an almost literal sense .  all this adds to the movie in a certain way that most hollywood productions cant seem to grasp .  now , to produce the effect that i mentioned above and to sink the ship itself are feats that are accomplished by special effects wizards .  the effects in this movie range from marvelous costumes to beautifully rendered scenes of the ships sinking .  in some respects you cannot tell that the effects are there , you simply think that what you see is what happened or what is happening ( if your imagination is good ) .  the technical wizardry done in this movie is just spectacular and actually getting new footage from the wreck of the titanic is unique .  the movie will leave you amazed at the effects , and that is a feat since there is no monsters or aliens in this movie , just humans and an oversized ship .  the movie will amaze you and it will pull on your emotions , the theater that i went to had a few people leaving with tears in their eyes .  now that is not a feat accomplished by most movies , now the fact that the tragedy actually occurred is brought home with something of a punch , i wont spoil the ending and say what happens regardless it is an interesting movie from beginning to the very end .  the historical value of this movie is quite high , and honestly is something that should be watched for the sake of seeing it and seeing the tragedy , for it is extremely well done .  the method of telling the story is also good , maybe not totally unique but effective none the less .  regardless of anything mentioned above this movie is a grandiose production and the sheer size of the project undertaken is something to be marveled at .  the simple fact that the movie is smashingly successful at what it aims to achieve is just astonishing .  if you get the chance to see this movie go ! ! !  it might not be the best movie in the world . .  but it ranks fairly highly and is well worth the time spent watching it .  during none of the 3 hours and 13 minutes of the movie are you bored nor does your attention wane from the movie . 
neg@ here's a rarity : a children's film that attempts to tackle a weighty subject , is there a god ?  done well , it could have been a gem among the wasteland of modern children's cinema .  unfortunately , it isn't .  with jumbled messages , and an unclear audience , wide awake was better left asleep .  fifth grader joshua beal ( joseph cross ) is in the middle of a moral crisis .  his beloved grandfather ( robert loggia ) has died , and joshua has begun a quest .  he wants to find god , to discover why bad things happen .  this religious quest is slightly disturbing for his parents ( dana delany and denis leary ) , but they do their best to cope with their son as he explores different religious faiths .  at his catholic school , his favorite teacher , sister terry ( rosie o'donnell ) , tries to give him guidance , but this is a journey he must make on his own .  meanwhile , he is having the most momentous year of his life .  he has several adventures with his daredevil best friend dave ( timothy reifsnyder ) , he gets his first crush , and begins to wake up to the world around him while he is on his spiritual journey .  it is somewhat confusing as to what the real audience for wide awake is expected to be .  on its surface , it appears to be a kid's film .  however , it deals with serious issues , and is likely to be boring for today's instant-gratification kids .  and while it might seem heartening to see that someone is trying to produce something thoughtful for the kidvid audience , wide awake asks serious questions , but only delivers a cheap gimmick for an answer .  if there were a bit more meat in the story , adults on a nostalgic bent might get a kick out of the movie .  the actors who might have created a great cast ( o'donnell , leary and delany ) are wasted in roles that amount to little more than cameos .  the nostalgic elements ( best friend , favorite teacher , first crush , etc . ) have been done much better in other movies , and actually seem more like filler here .  the film's strongest scenes are some touching flashbacks depicting joshua's relationship with his grandfather .  they show more depth than is present anywhere else in the movie .  maybe the film would have been better if , instead of playing the relationship through flashbacks , it were set entirely during joshua's last year with his grandpa .  it certainly would have been more entertaining .  wide awake can best be described as a failed experiment .  it starts out with noble aspirations , but never delivers on its promise .  parents who do take their children to see this one ought to be prepared to answer some tough questions . . . that is if their kids aren't bored to death first . 
pos@ quiz show , an almost perfectly accurate true story , is based upon the events of the popular television show of the mid-50's , " twenty-one " .  on this trivial game show , contestants were placed in isolation booths and then answered questions corresponding to a category of their choice , on which they wagered an amount of points on .  the game went on until a player reached twenty one points on felt they had earned enough points to win .  but , after ratings began to fall when players were struggling to break the zero mark , the producers decided to fix the game by giving the answers to a contestant before the game began .  quiz show illustrates the true stories of two particular contestants , herbie stempel and charles van doren .  stempel ( john turturro ) , a former g . i .  and your jewish man raising a family .  stempel has been the reigning champion on " twenty-one " for many weeks and has accumulated thousands of dollars .  in his mind , he is the best thing on television and the people love him .  although , in the mind of the show's producers , herbie stempel is getting old .  dan enright ( david paymer ) , in particular , feels that the people are tired of seeing a " jewish guy from queens with bad teeth " and that the kids need someone better to look up to .  therefore , they need to find another contestant whom would be a worthy role model and the people will look up to and cheer to win .  someone who can defeat stempel , even if they have to resort to cheating .  enter charles van doren ( ralph fiennes ) , a well-educated professor from a widely recognized family .  van doren had decided to try out for the game show " tic tac dough " because his friends thought he would be good at that sort of thing .  but when albert freedman ( hank azaria ) , enright's assistant , spots van doren , the two decide that they have found their soon-to-be-ruler of the " twenty-one " kingdom .  van doren is not too keen on the idea of receiving the answers ahead of time , so enright tells stempel that he is going to give the wrong answer , on purpose , in order to lose the game .  after stempel loses the " throne " to van doren , he starts to feel cheated ( which he should ) .  meanwhile , on his own , dick goodwin ( rob morrow ) , a harvard law graduate , has decided to start an investigation on " twenty-one " to try and find out if there have been any wrongdoings .  his investigation yields shocking results and leads to a trial for enright and the others involved .  quiz show is an extremely well done movie , and robert redford's direction is especially superb .  the performances turned in by john turturro , ralph fiennes , and rob morrow are very good , although it seems that turturro stands out more than any .  quiz show is also very precise when it comes to explicating the true events that inspired the film .  definitely a film you should not miss . 
neg@ there's no reason to doubt that donnie brasco is based , as its opening credits proclaim , on a true story .  but if it's an accurate picture of life on america's mean streets , than cinematic depictions of organised crime have had a much stronger basis in reality than i would have previously thought .  for from the film's outset , when a group of hoods jocularly trade differing opinions on the merits of various automobiles ( not unlike a number of movie lowlifes who recently gave a madonna song a close reading ) donnie brasco resembles more than passingly a few gangster flicks once believed to be works of fiction .  our eponymous hero ( johnny depp ) is not the cheap crook he first appears to be .  brasco is joseph pistone , an undercover fbi agent who has the task of chumming-up to lefty ( al pacino ) , a seasoned hood who tutors pistone in the art of being a " wiseguy " .  regrettably , pistone learns his lessons all too well .  his concern for lefty , who is burdened with a heroin addicted son , exacerbates his own family troubles : his children resent his lengthy absences and his wife fears that her husband's gangster persona is becoming a little too convincing .  true , the focus on pistone's family life does deviate from the typical gangster-flick formula , but this subplot never rises above its television drama origins .  the unhappy couple trade predictable lines and engage in drawn-out domestic squabbles ? including an ill-advised marriage guidance routine ? that slow the film down unnecessarily .  the biggest problem with donnie brasco , however , is that its wiseguy attitude and style lacks the flair of its many predecessors .  the awkward use of an occasional disco tune momentarily reminds us its the 70's , but not with the consistent and blindingly tacky style ? i loved those fluoro coloured suits ? of scorces' costume drama casino .  more importantly , pacino's presence triggers memories of his earlier movie triumphs in which similar territory was covered far more effectively .  donnie brasco's take on american values , for instance , is feeble and obvious .  lefty rambles out dreams of material betterment to the accompaniment of grating inspirational music .  inexplicably , lefty's horatio alger inspired gush is supposed to move us .  it doesn't any more than his family troubles do , which are dealt in the same saccharine and obvious manner as pistone's .  just think a minute on how these themes were explored in the godfather movies and scarface .  in these pictures pacino's dedication to a peculiar and bloody hyper-capitalism was twisted and confronting , while his dogged application of macho wiseguy procedure meant that his relations to friends and family was intriguingly dark ? neither were spared bloody retribution for breaching wiseguy regulations .  donnie brasco's tawdry little crime , therefore isn't so much its repetition of familiar gangster themes , but the shameless way in which it sanitises them .   ( oh and by the way , i forgot to mention that the script also sports a startling subplot : pipstone's superiors are obstructive incompetents who are infuriated by his constant insubordination ? is that a " damn you mcbain ! "  i hear from springfield way ? )  so the movie is cliched .  big deal , what do you expect from a gangster-flick ?  well you expect quality action sequences and bravado performances in abundance if its going to be a decent example of the genre .  donnie brasco fails on both counts .  the action scenes never rise above the ordinary and depp's woeful performance tends to smother the good-work of his comrades .  admittedly , pacino does nothing new and michael madsen ( sonny ) simply smirks his way through the picture like a slightly subdued mr . white , but both possess an unmistakable sly charm .  depp usually exhibits a bit of class himself , but regrettably , being in the presence of one of his betters must have left him star-struck , for he is completely hell-bent on mimicking pacino's well-earned high style .  the consequences are painful to watch .  its no exaggeration to say that the film's credibility is seriously strained by the sight of the pistone family's uncanny ability to keep a straight face in front of their breadwinner's phony brooklyn accent .  perhaps we should take pity on the makers of donnie brasco .  maybe a scrupulous adherence to pinpoint accuracy demanded tiered dialogue and scenarios weakly reminiscent of classic gangster flicks .  if this is indeed the case , surely the makers of donnie brasco could have explored the fascinating possibility that america's underworld is committed to emulating , albeit in heavily attenuated form , their movie namesakes .  depp could have poignantly played a simple cop who becomes a hideous parody once he is forced to mimic big-screen gangster greats .  who knows what insights into the criminal psyche could have arisen ?  but then again , perhaps donnie brasco isn't so true after all . 
pos@  " he's back , and it's about time . "  was the motto for this television series pilot ( i call it a pilot , i don't care what fox network says ) revival of the cult classic british tv show , doctor who , that spawned no series , which means there are no smart network execs out there ( not exactly news to a lot of people , i know ) .  the motto was well chosen .  the series was simple , it was about this time lord scientist called the doctor with thirteen lives who traveled around in a type forty spaceship called a tardis outsmarting all kind of alien baddies , including the evil daleks , and the master , who appears in this feature , played very badly by eric roberts .  as good as this revival was , there is something missing from it to make sure it was really doctor who .  is it the acting ?  hell , no !  paul mcgann is just as good as any of the other seven guys who've played the doctor ( including his predecessor and off-screen friend sylvester mccoy , who appears once more for the regeneration scene ) .  he looks right for the role , is a brilliant actor , and slips effortlessly into the role , the way my two favorites jon pertwee and tom baker would .  daphne ashbrook brings class to her role as dr . grace holloway , the doctor's first companion that he kisses on screen , she is not your typical female companion who screams , and spends her free time making coffee for the doctor , she is a tough , spunky american , and ashbrook shows this well .  young yee jee tso shows promise as chang lee , and i've seen him in other stuff in which he usually plays the punk kid who dies at the end ( this film included ) , which , imho , wastes his talent .  the only problem with the acting is eric roberts .  one time he had to say to mcgann's doctor , " i always dress for the occasion . "  but he broke it up , and said it so slowly that it wounded up sounding like a song lyric , " i always . . .  dress . . .  for the occasion . "  you need an actor less slow and less reliant on moving his hands to act , and who's also british , like mcgann is as the doctor .  executive producer phil segal said he was casted because fox insisted on having one american star in the role .  i dunno who thought of casting him , but if they're reading this : news flash : eric roberts is * not * a star !  he rides on his sister's coattails , and any hit movie he makes has nothing to do with him .  is this problem the kisses to the past ?  they have references to the show so subtle that non fans would not notice them , only whovians would , and they're good .  is it the script or the movie as a whole ?  the script is a classy piece of work , featuring a master who can spit slime out of his mouth and nice dialogue , and the movie as a whole is one fans will love , and it is a good stand alone viewing for nonfans to enjoy the series .  so what is it ?  simple : no plot .  the master , on his last legs , sends for the doctor to rescue him after the daleks put him on trial on their planet skaro and exterminate him .  the doctor attempts to take his remains back to gallifrey , but they accidentally land in san francisco , 1999 , december 31 , where the master , with young street hood chang lee's help , opens the eye of harmony , which will suck the earth through it at midnight if the doctor , with the help of female surgeon , dr . grace holloway , doesn't close it by then .  virtually no plot .  i was told the movie would've featured the daleks on screen and started with more of a courtroom drama between the master and the daleks , but a lot of rewriting went on on the set .  that shows how smart people are , as it would have made the movie a hell of a lot more interesting , and that would've gotten a four star rating out of me . 
neg@ i didn't hate the big hit , even though it is a stupefyingly terrible film .  for the entirety of its running time , my eyes were attached to the screen , and i never once got bored .  i found the film interesting because of its unique awfulness : this is such a confused disaster of a film that it's entertaining to watch it in the same way that it's entertaining to witness a thirty car pileup on a freeway spaghetti bowl .  as a narrative , the big hit is pure garbage , never truly deciding its genre and constantly crossing all kinds of boundaries .  it reminded me a lot of grosse pointe blank , which is a similar film that fails in a lot of the same ways .  it's fine to mix genres , if the film makers know what they're doing .  unfortunately , writer ben ramsey and director kirk wong don't seem to know how to handle the material , and the result is an action film that wants to be a comedy .  the biggest problem with the amalgamation , in this case , is that the film is absurd and the comedy is out of place .  but it sure is a fascinating failure .  marky .   .   .  er , mark wahlberg stars as melvin surley , a hitman .  he's a good hitman , apparently , although his tactics seem a bit rambunctious ( he doesn't snipe or make clean kills--he just kicks the door down and shoots everything ) .  he works with a few other hitmen--cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) , crunch ( bokeem woodbine ) , and vinnie ( antonio sabbato , jr . ) .  they're a nice bunch of muscular guys , who stand around in the locker room after working out and compare masturbation to sex .  they all work for a man named paris ( avery brooks ) , who is rich , powerful , and in constant need of four sloppy hitmen .  it is very important that they never go beyond their boss and do work on their own ; this , of course , is where the plot comes in .  they decide to kidnap a young japanese girl named keiko ( china chow ) , who has a rich father .  when they do this , it turns out she is paris' .   .   .  goddaughter !  it's very bad to have paris against you .  the story is standard action film stuff .  it's nothing new , and nothing particularly offensive ( but certainly not the slightest bit compelling ) .  clearly the major selling point of the big hit is that it's a john woo-type of action film mixed in with some really hip comedy .  it's true that a lot of the action sequences resemble recent films that go for the same idea ( such as face/off and the replacement killers , which are both far superior ) .  there are stunts that are fun to watch : the opening sequence has melvin and two of his partners going in to kill some guy who has nothing to do with the story .  they use night vision goggles and really powerful handguns .  melvin is also very good at breakdancing , and uses this talent to avoid bullets and knives .  like i said , it's not boring ; most disasters aren't .  what makes it so bad is its genre-shifting madness .  it seems to start out as a quirky-but-realistic action comedy , as melvin is seen transporting bags of human remains .  then , as soon as they go to their first hit , it turns into a music video with bodies and bullets flying everywhere .  then , somewhere in between , it turns back into comedy .  keiko turns out to be a spunky little girl ; in one amusing scene , she is forced to read a letter out loud , indicating that she has been kidnapped , but the letter is littered with grammatical errors that skew the meaning of the words .  and scenes like this work alone , but wong applies this goofy tone to scenes that should be more serious , or not be in the film at all .  one of the most irritating moments has paris ordering cisco to come up to his office after he learns that keiko has been kidnapped ; when cisco gets there , paris and his men are standing around as if they knew cisco did it , but they let him out of there , telling him to find the perpetrator .  the scene is played for laughs , but it isn't funny .  and since it doesn't quite work as a comedy , it tries to fall back on the action , which also fails .  this is a film where people fly fifteen feet backwards when shot with a handgun .  cars land on tree branches and are supported by them .  characters betray each other without a second thought .  grenades are thrown in tight places .  people jump out of tall buildings and survive .  people outrun tumbling cars , and get out of the way of falling objects in small fractions of seconds .  most frustrating of all , though , is the film's definition of a hit man : these guys are anything but subtle , quiet , and skilled individuals .  they're more like socially depraved militia men ( melvin has an extensive collection of firearms in his garage , including missile launchers and hand-held machineguns ) .  the characters each have one trait that distinguishes them from the rest ; this obviously doesn't make for deep or interesting people to watch .  the acting is kind of fun , though--wahlberg is a good actor , and his innocuous presence in this film is charming in a silly sort of way .  phillips certainly has fun with his psychotic character , while christina applegate , who plays melvin's fianc ? e , is convincingly air-headed .  the big hit is an action film that unknowingly spoofs itself in trying to be funny .  the funniest parts are supplied by the actors , and not by the numerous failed attempts at sight gags and one-liners .  it's a true disaster , one that makes me believe that the goofy and unrealistic tone is completely unintentional .  despite all this , though , i must reiterate the entertainment value here .  you can cherish the awfulness of a film like this .  if you embrace the big hit for the catastrophe that it is , you just might enjoy yourself . 
pos@ the ring is probably one of the creepiest movies i've seen in years .  but then again , i've always had this phobia of asian born horror films .  i remember when i was a kid i was scared as hell with those green faced , long-haired floating ghosts donning their white gownseuuugh .  the ring really brings back those memories and its grips me long after the movie has ended .  unlike the horror films coming from the west , i'm pretty much used to the gore and visual effects , so much so , they become rather bland nowadays .  there's really no scary movie from the west for a long time .  if you have something in mind , please tell me .  this japanese flick is supposed to be based upon stories written by `the stephen king of japan' , which is also ( i heard ) televised over the air in japan .  the film revolves around a mysterious videotape which will bring death for sure to the person who watches it , one week prior to viewing .  a journalist and her husband , stupid enough , tests the so call `urban legend' and ends up having a week before she meets her doom .  she and her husband then goes on a search for the origin of the videocassette , to get to the root of the whole curse with the hopes of freeing themselves .  the ring plays on the senses like no other horror film today .  visual subtlety , minimal music and an intriguing plot puts the audience within an aura of suspense throughout the entire film .  very well done indeed , especially for a film that does not have a single trace of violence and gore .  now , thats something budding horror film-maker wannabes should consider looking into .  just an idea of how visually powerful the film is , it is in japanese and subtitled in chinese ; both of which , i can't understand at all ( ok , i had a friend who gave me a gist prior to watching , but he revealed very little ! ) .  the twists in the plot , leading to an unforgettable climax ( will definitely leave an impression on the audience ) will have you at the edge of your seat . 
neg@ inspired by the 1958 film house on haunted hill starring vincent price .  directed by william malone .  starring geoffrey rush , famke janssen , and chris kattan .  rated r ( contains violence , profanity , and brief nudity ) .  synopsis : eccentric millionaire price offers $1 , 000 , 000 to each of his guests who appear at a gathering at a former sanitarium .  the only catch is that they have to survive the night at the establishment , an establishment haunted by its former staff and patients .  comments : house on haunted hill is based upon the original 1958 film of the same title directed by william castle and starring vincent price .  in an obvious homage , the millionaire's name is price and he sports a thin mustache like price used to have .  this is a pretty bad horror film , yet bad horror films sometimes are very entertaining , and house on haunted hill is just such a film .  it is , surprisingly , better than another recent haunted house remake , the haunting , a film which owes its basis to the classic horror novel by shirley jackson .  the haunting had literary pretensions and fell flat on it face .  house on haunted hill owes its lineage to a b-movie 40 years old and makes no illusion that it's a crappy horror movie .  thus , somehow , it proves slightly more successful .  i can't think of another recent film which has had such an eclectic cast .  it is this cast which lifts this ho-hum thriller into a borderline entertaining exercise in camp horror .  price , the main character , is played by geoffrey rush , the academy-award winning actor of shine .  rush seems to be making a downward spiral in the movie industry , a spiral reminiscent of ben ( ghandi , schindler's list ) kingsley's ridiculous appearance in the camp sci-fi classic species .  i don't know why , but sometimes it's entertaining to see " quality " actors in bad movies .  more surprises ?  rising star taye diggs plays a stereotypical african american sports figure ( rather lamely too ) , and singer lisa loeb ( ! )  appears as a tv news reporter .  the highlight of the cast , however , has to be saturday night live member chris kattan .  kattan's comic sense provides several good humorous moments as he plays the hysterical proprietor of the former sanitarium .  while the first half of the film leaves the audience guessing as to what's exactly going on , the second half dissolves into standard ghost story stuff and loses some of its suspense .  a disappointingly cheesy ending really mars this movie too .  house on haunted hill , i suspect , has just about left the second-run theaters .  it's worth catching on cable next year , if you get a chance .  if you have a choice , pick this movie over the haunting , it's the better of two evils , you could say .  though , more appropriately perhaps , it'd be better to say that it's the better of two turkeys . 
pos@ when _star wars_ came out some twenty years ago , the image of traveling throughout the stars has become a commonplace image .  when the millenium falcon moves throughout the stars , we see constellations , meteor showers , and cool space-ships .  when han solo goes light speed , the stars change to bright lines , going towards the viewer in lines that converge at an invisible point .  cool .  _october sky_ offers a much simpler image--that of a single white dot , traveling horizontally across the night sky .  was it really only forty years ago , when sputnik was launched , and that before then , no satellites ever existed ?  have we become so technologically advanced that we have forgotten that it was nearly two generations ago where people stood outside to breathlessly see a then-technological achievement , even though it was from the russians ?  it sounds hokey , but when that scene occurs near the beginning of _october sky_ , i found myself caught up with the enthusiasm of homer hickam , played by jake gyllenhaal .  determined to make a dent in the space race , he becomes transfixed with his desire to make a rocket that could fly like the best of them .  it is films like this that we know the ending as we buy the ticket .  when lovely teacher miss riley ( played by laura dern ) , suggests that he enters his findings into the national science fair , we know exactly who is going to win .  but the joy in a film like this is in the little details .  for example , homer is clearly not the strongest student in his class .  if he has any strengths whatsoever , it is an undeterring vision , and a good organizer .  it means that he may have to lose his reputation by associating with the nerdiest kid in school , who knows more about rocket science than he does .  it means that if his father forbids him to shoot rockets on company property ( that is , the entire coal-mining town ) , he must walk eight miles one way , just to set up the rockets , which will fail , fail , fail , and fail again .  homer+s dad is played by chris cooper , a favorite actor of mine since _lone star_ .  here he plays the antithesis of the character he played in _matewan_ : instead of organizing union rallies , he is the head of the coal-miners , who is constantly wringing his hands against the unions .  this is will be one of the great unnoticed performances of the year : note how multi-dimensional his character is .  he is his son+s last nemesis , as one who most likely interferes with his son+s dreams .  but he truly loves his son , and wants to see him succeed the only way he knows how .  through coal-mining .  because of his character , we can see how far we+ve come .  the revolution of modern technology has allowed for us to see society advanced at a rate far faster than any generation before us .  we don+t understand that there were the generations from the industrial revolution who knew of no other way to raise a family .  the paradigm was shifting under the father+s feet , and he knew of no other life .  so _october sky_ , far from being merely a feel-good inspirational film , offers much food for thought .  and this is the best type of inspirational film ; the one that you take something with you .  btw , the final image of the film is just as simple , is as strong a contrast as the aforementioned horizontal-moving white dot against the night-sky background .  another commonplace image , to be sure , but it must have been breathtaking forty years ago . 
neg@ at first i was intrigued by the strange cast and odd creatures on the galaxy quest trailer , but that was before i saw the film .  now my view has completely changed .  it's time to embrace for impact , because this is a very bumpy ride .  the story begins with the cast of galaxy quest including : jason nesmith ( tim allen ) , alexander dane ( alan rickman ) , gwen demarco ( sigourney weaver ) signing autographs at a convention .  they meet fans who dress up in costumes , fans who worship the ground they walk on , and a group of aliens called thermians who believe that they are the ultimate saviors against the dreaded alien colony lead by sarris ( robin sachs ) .  of course they are unaware of this until they actually begin performing their duties , and meet the ugly aliens themselves .  thus begins the long adventure to help save the thermians .  the movie plays like a really bad star trek episode , in fact it's worse .  i don't even think trekkies will appreciate this weak spoof , because quite frankly it's just not funny .  all the jokes are basically collected observations from the series .  one such continuous joke involves a simple crew member who believes he will die in space , because no extra on the tv show ever lives , as proven in the star trek series .  creative jokes like this may seem like a clever idea , but not when they are used to death .  a person can only take so much .  we do not need to be tortured , especially when you have to pay for it .  it's pretty bad when even tim allen is pitiful .  it's not like i expected an oscar worthy performance form him , but a few laughs would have been helpful .  speaking of acting , 2 fine talents were wasted as well .  sigourney weaver was here to show cleavage , well at least it worked .  it's pretty bad when the only entertaining value of the film is cleavage .  it just shows you how disgraceful the film really is .  alan rickman however was not so lucky .  after his last hit ( dogma ) he embarrasses himself by doing this sloppy mess .  it's just a shame to see talented actors and actresses throw their ability away .  when the film couldn't get any worse , thankfully some nice special effects pop up .  like many big blockbusters ( armageddon , the haunting to name a few ) they rely heavily on effects to help boost the film's box office results .  times it works , but unfortunately we have to shell out hard earned money and suffer through this junk .  when will it stop ?  i am getting tired of being suckered into seeing such trash .  it may look fine and dandy , but we need to at least have a story .  is that too much to ask ?  obviously it is .  when galaxy quest finally ends , it literally crash lands .  aside from the impressive looking creatures from industrial light and magic , it's an embarrassment to the cast , and it's embarrassing to the science fiction genre .  it's not the least bit fun , nor was it entertaining .  the only place where this movie belongs is to infinity and beyond . 
pos@ oliver stone's latest feature is the last one standing in the long line of biographies of american presidents .  it's a three-hour long saga about the life of one of the most hated and misunderstood leaders of the 20th century .  stone doesn't hold back anything as he digs deep inside politics and legal maneuvers of the white house .  the director holds nixon responsible for everything he has done .  at the same time he creates a very human character , a brilliant and tortured man that is caught in the dirty game of politics , which is here pictured as a wild animal .  he is simply trying to tame it .  but the occasional switch to the raging sky and the clouds swiftly fleeing over the white house as events run ahead of the president's ability to control them .  stone doesn't in any way apologize for nixon .  he blames not only nixon's own character flaws but also the imperial presidency itself , the system that , once set in motion , behaves with a mindlessness of its own .   " nixon " is a modern shakespeare story - a saga about a ruler destroyed by his fatal flaws .  there's something almost majestic about the process : as nixon goes down in this film , there is no gloating , but a watery sigh , as of a great ship sinking .  sir anthony hopkins is staggering and plays nixon with incredible honesty and understanding , creating a very emotional picture of the 37th american president .  joan allen's magnificent and captivating performance is certainly worth an oscar statuette .  she is strong and loyal as mrs . nixon .  the rest of the cast is equally magnificent , including : james woods , j . t . walsh , paul sorvino , ed harris and bob hoskins .  everyone does a serious and demanding job , no one are disappointing .  stone never loses focus and his direction is steddy , honest and determined .  he is displaying the historical facts and at the same time concentrating at the human element .  at times he is showing to black and white showing flashbacks from nixon's youth and childhood .  the flashy editing by brian berdan and frank corwin , robert richardson's rich cinematography and john williams' musical score create a hectic and bizarre atmosphere .  the film's only fault is that it's a bit tiering and overloaded with too much political material and legal maneuvers .  still it's an honest and captivating - a solid piece of movie making . 
neg@ way of the gun is brimming with surprises , some good , most bad .  one of the good ones is ryan phillippe's surprisingly halfway decent performance .  after the actor gained much attention by posing and preening through teen swill like i know what you did last summer , he hinted at a bit growth in last year's cruel intentions with his amusingly contemptuous john malkovich meets james spader performance , though his acting in that film faltered around the third act mark , precisely when the screenplay made his character grow a heart ( presumably to appeal to his training bra wearing fans ) and start bellyaching about how he'd fallen for his " target " .  it was a dramatic shift that neither phillippe nor the film's director could negotiate .  but he seems to be trying and that shouldn't be overlooked ( or probably over praised ) seeing as how , at this point , he really isn't required to do much but look pretty .  here , phillippe has procured a five day growth of beard , his hair askew and his affect altered to sound something like james cagney in all his " look here , see " glory .  it's tough to believe a pretty boy like phillippe as a hard ass , but his performance actually helps with the illusion .  unlike ben affleck's puppy dog approach in reindeer games , phillippe is believable and not too bad at that .  as for the plot , well , that's one of the bad surprises ; phillippe and the great benicio del torro play two moronic ( and not even remotely likeable ) criminals ( introduced to us in the parking lot of a rave where they stupidly pick a fight with about twenty people ) who hatch a scheme to kidnap a surrogate mother ( juliette lewis ) after overhearing that she's carrying the baby of painter ( scott wilson ) , a very well connected wealthy man .  the kidnapping devolves into a laborious shoot out where much damage is done and many are killed .  but the anti-heroes escape with the woman while an aging hit man ( james caan ) and two scheming bodyguards ( taye diggs and nicky katt ) remain in pursuit .  directed by christopher mcquarrie , the screenwriter who won an oscar for his work on usual suspects , an overrated piece of crime noir in many circles ( this one included ) , way of the gun is a hodgepodge of crime thriller motifs that just oozes eye rolling familiarity .  unlike phillipe , mcquarrie doesn't seem to be growing at all ; he fills his flick with a sprawling labyrinth of plot all snatched from movies i know i've seen before and worse , it feels like it .  the film lacks even a fresh approach ( like what soderbergh did out of sight or the limey ) to its clich ? s , all of which are spewed before us in a picture that tries so desperately to be hip and gritty without bothering to notice how common it is .  it features characters living by a code they seemed to have picked up in sam peckinpah 101 rather than any thing resembling life .  even attempts at emotional weight feel strained like in preposterous scene where enemies james caan and benicio del torro stop in their tracks to have a cup of coffee and pontificate on life , philosophy , etc . i didn't like the bit much when it first appeared in heat , here , it's even more self consciously " dramatic " .  usual suspects , which also featured a bunch of low lives that seemed to live by a code they learned from the movies , worked to some degree because of that astonishing twist ending .  nowadays an astonishing twist per ending is de rigeur , never mind if it deems all that transpired before it completely inconsequential .  thus , nearly every character in way comes with at least one dirty little secret ( most amateurishly projected before they appear ) and it too has an ironic little twist at the end ( nothing earth shattering , like in the usual suspects ) but i admit , i didn't see it coming , and i smiled .  however most of the movie feels exactly like the interrogation scenes between palminteri and spacey in usual suspects : a lot of faux huffing and puffing with no rhythm or reason .  or substance .  it's just as overplotted as suspects , and often dull as any overplotted movie without interesting characters , a distinctive style , or a good script would be .  even the good stuff , most of which involves james caan ( doing a fine job ) , feels odd and out of place in a movie that thinks lines like " karma is only justice with out the satisfaction " are clever .  at one point caan laments " need is the ultimate monkey " a line so inexplicable he might as well have said " love is like hippo ass " .  i've seen porno with better dialogue .  and some with better plot lines too .  but rarely has porn offered up such a talented cast ( i mean , can you even compare james caan to ron jeremy ) .  caan slips into this role with seeming ease , he could do this kind of soft-spoken tough guy in a coma , but he manages to give his character depth and weariness .  benicio del torro is always welcome , though here he plays it fairly straight ( rather than another oddball character creation like the ones the actor gave us in usual suspects and excess baggage ) , adopting a brad pitt-esque quizzical pout to go along with his heavy swaggering .  speaking of pitt , his ex , juliette lewis , is a weak link , either shouting her lines with ear shattering shrillness , or waddling about like a silly goose .  nicky katt was brilliant in a brief role in the limey , here his role is just as brief only he seems wasted ; he's only kept around for his cold presence .  taye diggs has a similar function , cool as ever , but never a character , though the guy has one helluva death scene .  for the most part way is incessantly talky with no reason to give a hippo's ass about any thing that transpires since its characters are never more than simplistic pawns .  it's vaguely tarantino-ish , but in a bad truth and consequences nm way , with phillippe , in one scene , leaping into a stupid rant about " faggots " migrating to los angeles .  you know the routine .  the final shoot out is pure bargain basement john woo ( who himself seems to be doing bargain basement john woo ) with interchangeable bad guys lining up to be shot at .  but those gun shots sure crack like thunder .  just the other day i was watching an old dirty harry movie on cable and was stunned to hear the weak elephant grunt-like sound that emanated from harry's fetishized smith and wesson .  oh how far we've come . 
pos@ glory--starring matthew broderick , denzel washington , and morgan freeman--is the true story of the 54th regiment of massachusetts , the first black fighting unit recruited by the north during the civil war .  broderick plays robert gould shaw , the young white officer who led the black soldiers into battle .  shaw , the son of well-to-do abolitionists , hailed from boston high society .  the letters he wrote home to his parents during the war are on display at harvard , and were , evidently , the inspiration for glory .  as the film begins in 1862 , shaw is a captain in the northern forces .  like private eriksson ( michael j . fox ) in casualties of war , shaw initially is naive and idealistic about the war--that is , until his company is attacked by enemy forces .  shaw experiences first hand the horror and chaos of battle , witnessing mass slaughter and receiving a minor wound himself when a bullet grazes his neck .  soon after his recovery , shaw is promoted to colonel and assigned to enlist and train blacks in the war effort .  glory is the story not only of colonel shaw , but also of the black soldiers who laid down their lives to free their brothers from slavery .  the film periodically jumps between shaw's point of view and the perspective of the black soldiers .  the movie introduces us to a handful of black recruits , and we follow them from their enlistment through basic training and finally into action .  the large black cast is uniformly outstanding , especially washington who is electrifying as a runaway slave with a big mouth .  he is brash and pushy , always getting into trouble and always looking for a fight .  his bitter , tough guy facade is really just a mask for his loneliness and vulnerability .  washington provides much of the film's intensity and emotional power .  in one heartbreaking scene , he is whipped for allegedly deserting the army .  when he removes his shirt to receive the punishment , you cringe at the sight of his back , which is riddled with ugly scars from his days as a slave .  it makes your blood boil .  the humiliation of the beating is far more traumatic than the actual physical pain it brings ; a tear rolls down washington's cheek--and will probably run down your cheek as well .  the episode becomes even more tragic when we learn that washington wasn't deserting the army at all ; he left camp to look for shoes because his feet were covered with oozing sores .  freeman is , as usual , a strong presence , even in a small supporting role .  he plays a grave digger who has buried more white soldiers than he cares to remember .  he quickly becomes a leader among the black soldiers , holding the group together and serving as a liaison to the white officers .  colonel shaw recognizes freeman's leadership ability and promotes him to sergeant major , making him the first black officer in the army .  andre braugher makes an impressive film debut in the role of thomas searles , a free black who is one of shaw's close childhood friends .  searles is educated and refined , like a white man , prompting washington to nickname him " snow flake . "  the burning question is whether searles is tough enough to survive basic training and to kill in combat .  the road from marching drills to battle action is a bumpy one for the black regiment .  the soldiers suffer innumerable hardships , but somehow they never lose their morale .  the army treats the black soldiers like second class citizens , subjecting them to racism and discrimination .  they are paid only $10 a month , whereas their white counterparts earn thirteen , and , for a long time , they have to go without shoes , guns , or uniforms .  to make matters worse , the white military hierarchy is extremely reluctant to allow the blacks into action , preferring instead to use them for manual labor .  eventually , however , the regiment receives its boots , uniforms , rifles , and right to fight , thanks to the stubborn resolve of colonel shaw .  shaw has absolute faith in his soldiers , and he fights tooth and nail to get them what they deserve , even if it means threatening a general with blackmail .  broderick , in fact , is most convincing in the scenes where shaw stands up for the regiment .  unfortunately , however , broderick's uneven performance is , in many respects , the weak link in the movie .  in an effort to look more mature , broderick sports a mustache and a goatee , and throughout the film he slips in and out of a phony boston accent .  he is never altogether convincing as shaw since much of the time his emotions seem forced .  the film places too much weight on broderick's character and not enough on the black soldiers , who are more intriguing .  glory regains lost ground with its harrowing depiction of war .  the movie shows the devastation of war without resorting to the unnecessarily graphic gore which marred born on the fourth of july .  glory does not try to rattle you with nauseating blood and guts .  except for a few bullet wounds and one exploding head , the film , for the most part , leaves the gore to your imagination , which is not to say that the battle scenes in glory are timid .  to the contrary , they are chaotic and horrifying ; it's just that director edward zwick ( the co-creator of " thirtysomething " ) films them with far more subtlety and restraint than oliver stone could ever muster .  the key to glory is the group dynamic among the black soldiers .  the movie depicts some of ( but not enough of ) their customs and rituals .  in one scene , for example , the soldiers motivate themselves by singing prayers around the campfire .  each man has a chance to relay a few words of inspiration .  a couple of the movie's most touching moments involve young black children looking up to the black soldiers with awe , disbelief and pride .  the regiment's greatest triumph comes when the soldiers distinguish themselves in battle , thereby earning the respect of their white peers and earning the honor of leading the climactic assault on fort wagner .  like any war film , glory has its share of gloom and despair , but ultimately it proves to be a truly uplifting experience and an important history lesson , a valuable reminder that despite what the history books say ( or , more precisely , what they do not say ) , blacks played a critically important role in the north's victory over the south--forever changing the evolution of america . 
neg@ sandra bullock in high heels and wielding a chainsaw ?  yup , it's gotta be summer .  just when you thought the pointless sequel had gone the way of franchise films and direct-to-video releases , into port slams speed 2 : cruise control , the gloriously godawful follow-up to the 1994 sleeper about a bus rigged to explode if it slowed below a certain speed .  the gimmick , this time , is an ocean liner rigged to , well , crash into stuff .  sound exciting ?  dennis hopper's disgruntled bomb squader , the villain of the first film , has given way to willem dafoe's disgruntled computer programmer , a maniac whose main beef has something to do with having to use live leeches , i kid you not , as a self-treatment for copper poison- ing .   ( and said poisoning induced by prolonged exposure to electro- magnetic fields , no less !  calling dean edell . . . )  so , he overrides the boat's computer , convinces the crew to abandon ship , and sends the remaining passengers , those who couldn't evacuate in time , on a col- lision course with destiny .   ( oddly , no one thinks to just . . .  jump off the back of the boat . )  with keanu reeves electing not to return-- perhaps he read the script ? --  the job of john mcclane goes to jason patric ( sleepers ) , as the * second * la cop and swat team member that that bus drivin' babe annie ( bullock ) has dated .   ( what are the odds ? )  they're on this caribbean cruise for pleasure , as are a handful of requisite stock characters , including a deaf teenager ( ! ) who has a crush on the hero ( ! ! ) who also knows how to sign ( ! ! ! ) .   ( and you thought the raptor slam was a cool summer movie move ?  wait till you see the feats that * this * little girl can do , when stuck on a shipboard elevator ! )  bullock is her pesky , perky self , though she ends up with far less screen time than her top billing suggests .   ( those paying attention to her bikini- and tank- tops probably won't complain , however ) patric is the main man in motion and that's damn good , 'cause when he stops to talk , he's only slightly less monotone than his predecessor .   ( his first lol line is to ms . bullock : " i'd like to boogie with you . " )  of course , nobody in front of the camera embarrasses themselves quite the way that returning director jan de bont does .  he also produced this mess , which is insulting even by the most lax summer standards .   ( con air , buddy , father's day , romy and michelle's high school reunion , murder at 1600 , 8 heads in a duffle bag , anaconda , vegas vacation , meet wally sparks , metro , bevery hills ninja , the relic , all is forgiven ) .  worse , he's spent a hundred mil on a premise that doesn't even live up to its title !  there's no sweat-inducing motion of the ocean here-- just two hours of shaky handheld camera work and a handful of cross-cut exteriors , all leading up to the big slam , when the love boat sideswipes an oil tanker and then plows into a harbor town .   ( oh , how far we've come in twenty years .  remember the simple fun of seeing a locomotive smash into railway station in the silver streak ? )  admittedly , either of the aforementioned sequences is worth the price of admission .  it's just the rest of the movie-- the other hundred or so minutes-- that's pure nonsense .  and wonderful nonsense at that .  i know he didn't intend to , but de bont has done one thing right : he's created the hands-down funniest film of the year .  so , now , allow to present a few more things that made me laugh :  o a box with a big label : " fiber optic converter "  o plain english , whole-sentence computer instructions  o an entire sequence devoted to opening a fire door  o jason patric's character walks onto the bridge and immediately understands everything that's happening  o a ships' navigator who speaks in a scottish accent and actually gets to say " i canna override it ! "  o willem dafoe's amazing arm-mounted keyboard  o two living , breathing adults ( bullock's character and the first mate ) who have to be told , step by step , how to disconnect a trip wire from the pin of a hand grenade .  duh  o " no wait ! "  screams the ship's intercom  o yet another damn dog in peril  o fishing reel .  pontoon plane .  memories of weekend at bernie's 
pos@ touchstone pictures and spyglass entertainment presents a birnbaum / barber production in association with a jackie chan films limited production jackie chan owen wilson " shanghai noon " lucy liu music by randy edelman co producers ned dowd jules daly executive producer jackie chan willie chan and solon so produced by roger birnbaum gary barber and jonathan glickman written by alfred gough & miles millar directed by tom dey  rated pg-13 for mild language , adult situations , drug use , martial art action and violence .  107 minutes .  super 35mm / panavision ( 2 . 35 : 1 )  what can you say about jackie chan that hasn't already been said .  since the release of 'rumble in the bronx " back in 1996 ( the u . s . release ) , jackie has become a fairly recognizable commodity on america's video shelves .  having made over 80 films , jackie has finally succeeded in bringing his style of action-comedy to the west .  his latest release , " shanghai noon " , is a joyful tribute / spoof of the classic western .  and by adding jackie chan into the genre , the tag line for the film ( " the western gets a kick in the pants " ) rings true .  jackie stars as chon wang , a lesser imperial guard in the forbidden city of china .  the royal princess pei pei ( lucy liu ) is set to be married to the obnoxious son of a nobleman from another prefecture .  unwilling to follow her father's wishes , princess pei pei with the assistance of her english tutor , decides to escape to america .  but this is all a ploy devised by exiled guard lo fong , which will lead to the princess' kidnapping and ransom .  unable to take any legal action , the ransom demands are met and three of the forbidden city's bravest guards ( played by cui ya hi , rong guang yu , and eric chen ) are ordered to transport the ransom payment to lo fong in carson city , nevada .  chon wang pleads with the imperial court and is given permission to join the team , as he is looked upon as a buffoon .  on a train in the u . s . jackie meets up with bandit roy o'bannon ( owen wilson ) .  he is much less of a bandit than he is a glory hog , looking simple for the notoriety and fame that being a bandit will bring him .  with his gang in tow , roy attempts to rob the train , when one of his gang murders the chinese interpreter of the royal court , who also happens to be chon wang's uncle .  chon wang gives chase , foiling the attempted robbery , but also leaving himself stranded in the desert .  as the disgraced guard wanders through the desert , he again comes upon roy , who has been left for dead by his former gang .  buried up to his neck in the desert , roy pleads with chon to dig him out .  chon demands to know where carson city is .  roy directs him , and chon leaves .  but not before sticking two chopsticks into roy's mouth and telling him to dig himself .  chon soon finds himself confronted by angry crow warriors , a friendly sioux tribe , gunslingers , a horse that thinks and behaves like a dog and an indian bride ( brandon merrill ) , before once again running into roy .   " shanghai noon " is just good fun .  the chemistry between the cast is remarkable .  the performances are all acceptable within the whimsical levels of the film .  jackie's performance is as good as anything he's done before .  he's not called on to do much acting here , as the character is not written with any depth .  but jackie's natural charisma shines through , and his comic timing is so perfect , both physically and ( surprise ) verbally that once again he commands the screen whenever he is on .  owen wilson , last seen in the embarrassing remake of " the haunting " , gives a good natured performance as roy o'bannon .  his innocence is refreshing and fun .  a bad guy that's not really bad .  his scenes with jackie are some of the best bits of comic dueling since martin and lewis .  lucy liu as princess pei pei is given little to do in the script , but for a change does not play a nymphet or some other deviant .  the character is a noble woman of status and wealth , but finds a greater cause as a result of her own imprisonment .  the rest of the performances are all broadly drawn comic performances .  nothing here is realistic , mind you .   " shanghai noon " is first and foremost a light , jovial film .  and the performances match that style with ease .  the cinematography by dan mindel is gorgeous .  using calgary , alberta as the prime location .  mr . mindel is able to create a lush , romantic western feel to the film .  nothing here really looks like nevada , but the locations are so beautifully shot and staged , the film can be looked upon as a loving tribute to earlier films of the genre .  and as such , the script by alfred gough and miles millar plays fast and loose with history , but with reverence to past films .  homage to such films as " high noon " ( obviously ) , " red river " and most notably " butch cassidy & the sundance kid " all bring a sense of nostalgia to the film .  it is a comforting experience .  at a time when the western is considered either old hat or irrelevant , here is a film that embraces those old attitudes and ( dare i say ) clich ? s and manages to make them palatable and refreshing .  here is a film that is not contemptuous of the genre .  this is the purest " horse opera " since the days of george o'brian or john wayne .  director tom dey has crafted a loving tribute to hollywood's past .  in this , his first film mr . dey shows both a love of character and of craftsmanship that is refreshing to see .  nothing here really stands out , or takes one's attention away from the story or action .  and that is as it should be , when jackie chan is your star .  and what of the action and stunts .  well , while not up to a level of " drunken master 2 " or any of jackie's hong kong films , " shanghai noon " is miles ahead of anything jackie has done in an american film before .  his timing , choreography , and creativity are still as sharp as ever .  jackie even gets to recreate a few scenes from his earlier films ( obvious to those of us that have seen those films , but refreshingly fun for those unfamiliar ) .  finally jackie can honestly say , that he has made an u . s . , his way and incorporating his style .  to sum up , " shanghai noon " is a fun summer confection .  not too heavy and not too light .  a fun and entertaining film that the whole family can enjoy ( parents be advised there are scenes of smoking , drunkenness and peyote use ) .  an enjoyable and charming film that can and will be enjoyed again and again . 
neg@  " i would appreciate it if you didn't do that again . "  starring jet li , bridget fonda , tch ? ky karyo , burt kwouk .  directed by chris nahon .  rated r .  it's no secret that martial arts film often use their plot simply to get from one action sequence to another .  when the fight scenes are enough to justify paying admission , there is no problem with this , as in most jackie chan projects and a lot of the hong kong actioners .  when they aren't , well , we're in bad shape .  kiss of the dragon , jet li's second consecutive american misfire , plays like one big miscalculation , and fails even as the most rudimentary entertainment .  now before i start getting e-mails angrily touting the genius of jet li , let me explain myself .  li is as spectacular as ever here , and i don't think anyone would ever dare call his martial-arts-star skills into question .  the problem isn't with him , it's with the movie's tone .  the much touted fight-scenes here are filmed with such unflinching , unrelenting brutality that they are unpleasant to watch .  they're joyless , perfuctory ; li's rogue chinese detective is more of a killing machine than a hero , a terminator with a black belt instead of a metal skeleton .  but even the terminator in judgement day had a sympathetic side .  the plot isn't relevant , but if you're curious , it's some nonsense about a chinese law enforcement officer ( li ) sent to paris to investigate a possible drug ring and encounter a corrupt chief of police ( tcheky karyo ) , who kills people and does sinister things with no motivation whatsoever .  oh yeah , and li's character is also an acupuncture expert who is able to ease pain and/or kill at the touch of a needle .   " kiss of the dragon " is the name of an acupuncture maneuver , in which you stick a needle in a precise location on the back of the victim's neck , somehow redirecting all of the body's bloodflow to the brain and killing the poor sap more or less immediately .  there's a vague attempt to humanize li by having him fall in love with a downtrodden prostitute , whose daughter is being held hostage , for some reason , by the villain .  this is one of the worst love stories i have ever seen on screen , even worse than the one in pearl harbor .  there's no conviction whatsoever as the movie barely pays lip service to it ; it's only here because someone apparently thought there should be some kind of boy-meets-girl subplot .  kiss of the dragon was written by luc besson , whose screenplay the messenger : the story of joan of arc , for all of that film's flaws , was at least thoughtful .  i don't know why the guy got himself involved in this train wreck , but perhaps he wanted to so something more mainstream after the neverending weirdness of the fifth element and the aforementioned stylized biopic .  i suppose you could call this mainstream , but i'll choose the bizarre any time of the day .  if action scenes in a movie are going to be brutal instead of dazzling , you need a story to justify watching them .  the filmmakers behind kiss of the dragon should have rethought their strategy .  no one will walk out of this misbegotten project smiling , but i hear rush hour 2 is coming in just a few weeks . 
pos@ i am starting to write this review before going to see strawberry and chocolate , cuba's oscar nominee for best foreign film , directed by tomas gutierrez alea ( who also directed the sometimes and in some circles critically acclaimed memorias del subdesarrollo-- " memories of underdevelopment " .  i saw memorias as part of a cuban cinema class back in the late '70s ; it merged the politics of the cuban revolution with mundane elements of the human condition .  i knew then that memorias was probably a state-sanctioned political missive , and now expect strawberry will follow suit .  fellow internetters , primarily in the newsgroup dedicated to cuba ( soc . culture . cuba ) , have mentioned that strawberry is a harsh criticism of the revolution and its current state of affairs .  i have jumped to the conclusion that strawberry is nothing more than a veiled attempt at espousing the party line--it probably looks like political criticism , but it ain't so .  having some first hand and extensive anecdotal knowledge of castro's repressiveness , i can't conceive of his tolerating honest and adversarial criticism of the revolution , and i can't imagine his letting anyone even suggest his failure as a leader of a failed movement .  as kids say these days , duh ! , the revolution's current state needs no criticism ; its physical and spiritual crumbling is self evident .  the proper questions to put relate to castro's legitimacy .  i bet the film takes castro's power for granted , and that this or any other movie , produced under cuba's state control , cannot question his right to run cuba's political show ( ongoing now for more than 36 years ) .  that's why i just can't believe strawberry is an honest criticism of the regime .  let's see what happens after the room goes dark and the screen lights up .  i saw the film--twice .  i was right ; castro remained intact .  strawberry negotiates the relationship between a young " dialectic materialist , " as he describes himself , and a homosexual photographer ( diego ) in 1979 cuba .  the young man ( david ) is the son of peasants ; a symbol of the revolution's reason for being .  grateful to the revolution for the opportunity to receive a university education , he studies political science instead of literature , his avocation , because he perceives it is his duty .  therein lies a likely unintended irony , since cuba has no need for political theoreticians .  cuba's government is castro .  diego's lifestyle is the antithesis of revolutionary life .  he enjoys the finer things--tea , opera , art .  he does not do " voluntary work " for the revolution .  his small apartment is a sensual oasis .  the moniker " bourgeois " figuratively hangs over his head during the early parts of the movie .  however , he is a " revolucionario " in his own way .  the supporting roles are filled by : an aging busybody with a heart of gold and a troubled psyche ; david's roommate , who rally takes the communist party line to its expected extreme ; david's ex-girlfriend , who dumped him for another guy , yet wants to bed him before she leaves for italy with her husband ; german , a gay sculptor whose work diego is attempting to exhibit , and who strikes a faustian pact with the government .  gutierrez alea and co-director juan carlos tabio do a fine job at almost showing that homosexuals can be revolutionaries too .  heck , towards the end of the film you begin to think the guy deserves a medal for his patriotic fervor .  he really loves the revolution ( as supposedly does everybody else in cuba ) and wants to make it better by exposing and correcting some of its flaws .  real criticism is missing though .  this movie is political window dressing .  luis aguilar leon's op .  ed .  piece on fresa in the miami herald ( 10 march 1995 , at 21a ) did not color my judgment ; it presaged my intuition .  aguilar leon expressed my sentiment about this film's political angle best : like many artistic manifestations in cuba , strawberry and chocolate sprang from a totally manipulated environment .  as art critic ivan de la nuez well states in the latest issue of the magazine postmodern notes , the silenced artists are those who refuse to accept " the charade in which artists can provoke up to a point , while the institutions legitimize themselves by forbidding them to go beyond that point . "  although terrible propaganda , this is otherwise a fine film . 
neg@ director andrew davis reworks his fugitive formula and the results are about as exciting as his last film-- the dreadful comedy steal big , steal little-- was funny .  keanu " i'd rather play music than play another action hero " reeves is the grad student on the run , who , along with his superfluous sidekick ( rachel weisz ) , has been framed for a sabotaged science experiment that vaporized eight chicago city blocks .   ( the mushroom-cloud explosion is a knock-out and easily the best part of the movie .  or , as one audience member succinctly summed it up : " whoa . " )  false information implicates their involvement and boy and girl are soon on the run , fleeing over open drawbridges , across icy lakes , and through the corridors of power at a top-secret , underground energy facility .  aiding and abetting is the team's shady mentor , played in an excellent-but-so- what performance by morgan freeman .   ( brit brian cox is also about , as the behind-the-scenes bad guy .  he has some fun fiddling with a southern accent . )  unfunny , overscored , and without a single shred of suspense , chain reaction is * the * summer movie to walk out on .  if you make it to the end , a mess of cross-cutting involving another imminent explosion , you'll hear somebody say " i guess it's time to go . "  heed that warning . 
pos@ i was originally going to give the spanish prisoner two and half stars .  from my first viewing , i noticed that david mamet's film was intense and clever at times but boring and cliched at other times especially at the beginning .  from my second viewing however , i noticed that mamet's script was actually a masterpiece .  the spanish prisoner , like the usual suspects or chinatown , begs for the viewer's complete attention .  miss a scene or even a small detail , and you could miss the meaning of the entire film .  also like the aforementioned films , it rewards its viewer for paying attention by delivering a surprising and memorable ending .  mamet is success doing again what he once tackled in 1987 when he wrote and directed house of games .  like his past gem , the spanish prisoner fools the audience as much ( or even more ) than the victim .  because we were deceived just like the victim , we feel a strong attachment to the main character and consequently are more interested in the film .  mamet has the talent of not completely ending a film gift wrapped , but rather leaving some ambiguity towards the end .  the power that he has in forcing the viewer to determine who the good guys and bad guys are once the film is over , without giving a right answer , is unique and ingenious .  the spanish prisoner will leave you seriously puzzled and intrigued .  after seeing the film again , i noticed that the details mamet uses are so incredibly accurate it is frightening .  his direction is very subtle ; as he leaves so many clues explaining what is going on and who is who but it is still very difficult to tell what exactly is happening even if you see all of them , or think you see all of them .  the story follows a young up and coming businessman , joe ross , ( campbell scott ) who has just created a mysterious and lucrative " process " that everyone is trying to get their hands on .  soon ross does not know who he can trust or who is after his " process . "  through his journey ross meets a number of mysterious characters : the rich and popular jimmy dell , a secretary who has a huge crush on ross , and ross' boss mr . klein .  played by steve martin , rebecca pidgeon , and ben gazarra respectively , the supporting cast is very solid especially martin , who deserved an oscar nomination for his commanding and manipulative role .  the most interesting character in the film , though , was campbell scott's joe ross .  the character's transformation from an ingenuous and polite rookie to a paranoid veteran is very apparent and justifiable .  david mamet's script is so interesting because we know people don't actually talk like the characters in the film , yet we feel so connected to some of them .  his beguiling style could fool any viewer up for the challenge .  this is a must see , for those interested in solving a complex puzzle of a movie . 
neg@ i wonder if budget is at all a criterion for whether or not a movie can be considered an exploitation flick .  take the professional , for example .  it boasts extremely glossy cinematography , a couple of recognizable name actors , and a couple of fairly impressive explosions .  it's also basically about violence and cheap titilation , and features a central relationship between a middle-aged man and a twelve-year-old girl with a decidedly ambiguous sexual dimension .  the professional is all over the map , and its pretensions of being about anything more than its most unpleasant elements simply make it all the more unpleasant .  the professional of the title is a new york hit man named leon ( jean reno ) , brutally efficient but also very isolated .  one day he is forced to let someone into his life when a girl from his apartment building knocks on his door .  her name is matilda ( natalie portman ) , and the rest of her family has just been killed by crooked and very wired d . e . a .  agent norman stansfield ( gary oldman ) after matilda's father tried to rip him off .  leon reluctantly takes matilda in , then begins to teach her his profession when she says that she wants to avenge the murder of her young brother .  the two become closer , which makes them all the more vulnerable when stansfield learns that they know too much , and sets out to eliminate them both .  writer/director luc besson has gone this route before with his popular french import la femme nikita , a slick potboiler about a female assassin .  there is no question that besson can make a great * looking * film ; with the assistance of cinematographer thierry arbogast , he has created a film chock full of moody close-ups and evocative lighting .  but beneath the shiny wrapper , there isn't nearly as much going on as besson would like us to believe .  the relationship between leon and matilda never clicks because neither one is given a character to develop .  leon is mostly a collection of quirky traits , all intended to show us that for a hired killer , he's really not so bad a guy : he drinks lots of milk , takes meticulous care of a potted plant , and enjoys gene kelly movies .  jean reno succeeds at giving leon a haunted and desperate quality , but he never makes an emotional connection to matilda .  natalie portman is all wrong for a part that called for a much grittier quality , but she doesn't have too much to work with , either .  besson would have been better served spending more time trying to bring his characters to life , and less on feeble attempts at humor which are often embarrassing .  a silly game between leon and matilda involving celebrity impersonations is completely out of place , as is a scene where matilda shocks a hotel manager by announcing that leon is her lover ; character is thoroughly sacrificed for a cheap gag .  gary oldman's entire part is something of a cheap gag , wild-eyed and way over the top , but at least he is interesting to watch .  there isn't a real person to be found anywhere in the professional , which isn't always a problem in an action thriller , except that this one is trying to pass itself off as something more .  a more disconcerting problem with the professional is that it plays around with the sexuality of a twelve-year-old in a really distasteful way .  there were only two real choices for dealing with that component of leon and matilda's relationship : confront it head on , or ignore it entirely .  but besson flirts and teases the audience with the idea that he's going to show them a forbidden love story , while choosing simply to focus his camera on portman's rear end and dress her in skimpy clothing .  this is to say nothing of the questionable decision to make it look like quality paternal time when leon is teaching a child to load a 9mm pistol , or the blood which is spilled aplenty .  a great deal of the time , the professional is just plain sleazy , and all the soft filters in the world can't disguise that fact . 
pos@ 'lake placid' is definately not your typical creature attacking people movie , ok so maybe it is , but this one is enjoyable , and clever .  actually it comes off more of a comedy than a horror film .  well the ending is kinda scary , but in most horror/comedies they are .  i will admit that 'lake placid' isn't an oscar worthy film , but it does come off as an inventive movie that is original and funny .  bridget fonda plays a palentologist who after finding out her boyfriend is cheating , is forced to go to lake placid and investigate a tooth , after a man is bit in half .  she gets there but really doesn't understand why she is there .  bill pullman plays a man also investigating what happened , along with the sherriff and a rich croc obsessed man , they go out and find what is going on .  what they find though isn't great .  a huge and i mean huge crocodile is living in lake placid , over 150 years old , he has migrated here for who knows why .  they have to fight against the croc and try to trap him so they can study him and see where he came from .  betty white plays a woman who lives on the shores of lake placid , and well you'll have to see the movie to find out .  her character is very funny and foul-mouthed , which is surprising to hear betty spew words and phrases that are pretty bad , but funny .  to me the movie came off as a spoof of jaws .  with the opening sequence , and some others , it is not original and is .  when you watch this movie , you definately notice the smartness and cleverness of it .  david e . kelly who is the mastermind of the practice and ally mcbeal , writes this movie with ease and surprisingly does a great job .  the characters have smartmouths , two foul , and some great one-liners .  but believe me , don't take 'lake placid' too seriously or you won't like it .  but it is a movie that can be enjoyed as a fun 'popcorn' type movie .  but i guess it rates above the 'popcorn' rating .  sit back , watch the movie , laugh , scream , and whatever you want .  even though the movie is r , and i put violence and gore .  there's really not that much gore , but what there is might seem kinda gross to some .  'lake placid' is a smart , clever , funny , and scary movie that i enjoyed and i think you will too . 
neg@ miramax " disinvited " on-line media from press screenings of scream 3 .  they ostensibly feared that folks like me would write spoiler-filled reviews and post them prior to the film's february 4th release date-unsound reasoning .  you see , 'net critics established enough to be on any sort of vip list are professionals-miramax surely knows the difference between a member of the on-line film critics society ( ofcs ) and the type of fanboy who posts spy reports at ain't it cool news .  no , the ? mini major' was afraid we'd let a bigger cat out of the bag than whodunit , that scream 3 is a dismal conclusion to the beloved ( by this writer , at least ) franchise .  something smells rotten in the state of california right from the get-go : cotton weary ( liev schrieber ) , the former lover and would-be killer of maureen prescott , sidney's mother , is juggling phone calls in his luxury car .   ( once considered a danger to society , weary now hosts his own talk show , " 100% cotton " , a clever , if dated , jab at american pop culture . )  of course , a new ghostface dials him up , and , with memories of scream's unbearably suspenseful prologue in mind , we immediately wonder , where is the killer ?  the backseat ?  the next car ?  thrilling prospects , to be sure , but actually , ghostface is at the weary residence , waiting for cotton's girlfriend ( kelly rutheford ) to finishing showering .  what's missing from this sequence , and indeed scream 3's remaining frights ( most disappointingly , the moment when an ingenue is forced to hide in a wardrobe room filled with ghostface costumes , one of which might spring to life ) , is an elaborate and attenuated payoff .  our other surviving regulars have become estranged .  sidney ( campbell ) is living a paranoid existence of electronic gates and password-protected locks , while dewey ( arquette ) acts as technical advisor on the second sequel to scream 2's movie-within-a-movie , " stab 3 " , and gale weathers ( cox arquette ) headlines a gossipy news program .  murder reunites them , as knife-wielding ghostface stalks the set of " stab 3 " , imitating its sadistic screenplay-and his/her/their own personal draft climaxes with sidney's death .  the appeal of ghostface's villainy is that he/she/they could be your boyfriend , your classmate , your next door neighbour . . . or a combination of people .  scream was the first of its kind : a slasher mystery , with the guessing game not only entailing who will be next , but also who is/are the perpetrator ( s ) and what is/are his/her/their motive .  ironic self-reflection aside , parts one and two stand out in a crowd that includes umpteen friday the 13th and halloween flicks because there's at last articulate human beings behind the iconic costume .  with scream 3 , the novelty of ghostface's ever-mutating identity has worn off some , but the character remains conceptually potent .  conceptually . the execution of ghostface's master plan this time around is creaky , because screenwriter ehren kruger has invented a new mythology for the world of sidney prescott far afield from what we'd come to understand in scream and scream 2 . the movie gets in the silly habit of saying " all bets are off ! "  in reference to the " rules " of a trilogy's third act , but there's a difference between rule breaking and cheating .  with the departure of kevin williamson , who authored the previous screams as well as a tidy outline for scream 3 ( that , for reasons incomprehensible to me , was ignored , save the notion of " stab 3 " ) , kruger needed to be reined in tighter , and by wes craven .  craven's direction of scream 3 is lazy in most respects .  how else to explain the jay and silent bob cameo ( the slacker duo of kevin smith movies ) , akin to seeing mickey mouse pop up in mulan and more distracting than funny .  it pains me to write this , but scream 3's comedy is generally laughless , with the exception of well-timed performances by josh pais ( as a police detective possessed of the same personality he had as a persnickety teacher in craven's music of the heart ) , jamie kennedy ( resurrecting film geek randy for the sendoff he was denied in scream 2 ) , and parker posey ( through sheer force of will as a b-actress ) .  the visuals are much weaker in part three , as well-the occasional sweeping gesture of peter deming's camera is a pale imitation of the stalking steadicam craven gave us twice before .   ( aside : in the wake of columbine , craven toned down the violence significantly for scream 3-why the sanctimony , when scream and scream 2 are still readily available on video store shelves ? )  finally , marco beltrami's music cues the suspense too blatantly-do you recall the tense chase at the college radio station in scream 2 ? it's mostly silent .  sting notes are a whole lot more effective if they spring from nowhere ; here , they act as the crescendos of an incessantly nerve-jangling score .  i look at scream 3 as coming from an alternative universe , the same place that birthed the godfather part iii and superman iii-woefully out of synch with its prequels , scream 3 is a nightmare instead of nightmarish , and will likely put the horror genre back in mothballs .  the film unintentionally follows the unspoken rule of a trilogy to a t : ? part three must disappoint' . 
pos@ tone alone cannot sustain a film , but it can go a long way .  if i can find myself lost in the time and place of a story , it scores immediate style points .  when that tone is backed up by an outstanding story and great acting , the effect can be described best by an adjective i do not use lightly : " literary . "  what's eating gilbert grape ?  is such a film .  it's a rich , memorable and stunningly acted story of desire colliding with responsibility , staged in a manner which many viewers might find too prosaic , but which insinuated itself into my imagination with its confidence .  gilbert grape ( johnny depp ) is a young man living in rural endora , iowa , facing incredible responsibilities .  as the man of the house since his father's suicide , gilbert must support the family by working at the local grocery store .  he also must watch over his mentally handicapped brother arnie ( leonardo dicaprio ) and help care for his extremely overweight mother ( darlene cates ) .  gilbert seems destined to spend the rest of his life in the small town until the arrival in endora of becky ( juliette lewis ) , a free spirit passing through with her grandmother when their truck breaks down .  as he spends time with becky , gilbert begins to think about all the things he is missing .  slowly his resentment builds , until he realizes that he can no longer live his entire life for other people .  director lasse hallstrom ( my life as a dog ) and legendary cinematographer sven nykvist create a magnificent visual backdrop for peter hedges' screenplay , based on his own novel .  endora is a town on the edge of the world represented by the giant foodmart , a tiny insular community where everyone knows everyone else .  the midwestern sunsets and sprawling fields are beautifully photographed , and the atmosphere of the town is intensely real .  minor characters , like crispin glover as the town's mortician , are vividly realized , and there are echoes of the last picture show in mary steenburgen's desperately unhappy housewife .  one of the most perfectly realized scenes focuses on the grand opening of a burger franchise , attended by the entire town and accompanied by the off-key high school band .  not a single note in the depiction of endora rang false .  the same can be said of the character of gilbert .  it's testimony to the precision involved in his creation that he came together completely with one perfectly placed line , when becky responds to gilbert's description of his father with , " i knew someone like that once . "  gilbert is a man harboring an ever-growing bitterness about where he finds himself in life , a bitterness which reveals itself in moments of surprising cruelty .  in one scene , he allows local children to look at his mother through their window , displaying her like a side show attraction .  his entire life seems to be mocked by arnie's repeated chants of , " we're not going anywhere , " but instead of expressing his dissatisfaction he lets his anger simmer , and it becomes clear that he is following in his father's footsteps in this regard .  johnny depp expertly demonstrates the tension central to gilbert by playing everything below the surface , but he never gives in to one-dimensional blankness or simply regurgitates his naif roles in benny & joon and edward scissorhands .  depp's performance is overshadowed , however , by leonardo dicaprio's astonishing oscar-nominated supporting work as arnie .  he puts to shame such big name actors as john malkovich and dustin hoffman , whose mentally challenged characters never seemed completely real .  dicaprio is perfect to the last twitch and squeal , and anyone who has ever spent time with mentally challenged kids will be hard-pressed to spot a flaw .  darlene cates , a first-time actor , brings real pain to her scenes as gilbert's tortured mother , and laura harrington and mary kate schellhardt are solid as gilbert's sisters .  only juliette lewis doesn't quite click , playing a critical role with her now familiar dopey drone and too little genuine spark .  gilbert grape does seem to drift into its conclusion , but it never lost me .  thanks to a lovingly created setting and a marvelous cast , this 1993 release proves well worth the wait . 
neg@ the realm of science fiction has always been an allegory of political and or moral sensibilities .  the best tales of the genre deal with mankind's struggle for survival or knowledge .  such popular and noteworthy tomes as " stranger in a strange land " by robert heinlein , " childhood's end " by arthur c . clarke and " man in the high castle " and " do androids dream of electric sheep " by philip k . dick all deal with man's need for identity and struggle for self worth .  hollywood has regularly adapted the milieu ( if not the message ) of science fiction since it's beginnings .  most films just created fancy pulp tales with no more thought that the escapism they achieved .  it really wasn't until producer george pal , took charge of robert heinlein's novel " rocketship galileo " and crafted the film " destination moon " , that 'sci-fi' ( as it is commonly referred to ) , came into it's own .  from there , such diverse filmmakers as roger corman to stanley kubrick , have sought to express ideas through the medium of the genre .  with the release of touchstone pictures " mission to mars " , we have an unabashedly nonchalant sci-fi film for those who read the national enquirer and the globe .  the film opens on a summer barbecue , as phil ohlmyer ( jerry o'connell ) woos a young female with his tales of space glory and the upcoming mission .  woody blake ( tim robbins ) and his wife terri ( connie nielsen ) commit to his coming authority on the mission , and luc goddard ( don cheadle ) consoles his son .  entering the party is jim mcconnell ( gary sinise ) , who gave up command of the mission due to the untimely death of his wife , maggie ( kim delaney ) .  luc consoles jim with woody's assistance .  the three men are friends and carry a fine bond of trust and caring between them .  but jim still longs to set foot on the red planet .  the mission is in earnest as luc and his team land in the cydonia region of mars .  they send out the rover to investigate the area and discover what seems to be water or ice under the surface .  going out to investigate , luc and his team approach the famed 'face on mars' .  a strange noise emanates from the rock .  as the team tries to scan through the rock with radar , a violent wind storm erupts , creating a vortex that kills all members of the team , save for luc .  back on the space station orbiting earth , woody and jim receive the information that the mars landing team is missing .  luc's interference laden emergency message urges the two men to attempt a second mission to the red planet in the hopes of rescuing the previous team .  the second journey to the martian world is fraught with danger .  meteorite showers , explosions , and rescues all come into play as the intrepid heroes make there way to the planet's surface .  the big question is , is there now or has there ever been intelligent life on mars .  and if so , what is its relationship with us ?  now for the bad news .  the entire plot of " mission to mars " is based almost wholeheartedly on outdated and preposterous national enquirer type martian civilization tripe .  the famed 'face on mars' becomes the centerpiece of the film , revealing some of the most harebrained sci-fi pabulum the screen has witnessed .  borrowing ideas from such films as " robinson crusoe on mars " ( 1964 ) , quatermass and the pit ( 1967 ) , " 2001 : a space odyssey " , and even mario bava's " planet of the vampires " ( 'terrore nello spazio' ) ( 1965 ) , " mission to mars " is a hodgepodge of ideas that don't add up to a satisfying whole .  while some sequences are wonderfully handled and executed , the film remains flat and un-involving .  so much time is giving to establishing the lead characters in the film , but to no good use .  the performances are all workmen like , with only don cheadle ( as luc ) carrying any sort of real chemistry .  gary sinise is wasted in role that requires him to look as if he is experiencing sleep depravation .  and the mistaken idea of having jerry o'connell ( as phil ohlmyer ) play his part for comic relief is just too painful to excuse .  and the less said about tim robbins called in from home performance the better .  he's just having too much fun here to give a damn .  the script has a few lapses , namely that after discovering several breaches in the hull of the ship caused by a meteorite shower , no one thinks of checking the fuel tanks or the remainder of the ship for damage .  this of course leads to our heroes having to abandon their rescue ship .  also , when one character sacrifices himself , the character takes on a religious demeanor that is completely at odds with the situation .  but the biggest offence in the film is the horrid , intrusive score by ennio morricone .  subtlety is non-existent here .  in fact in some scenes the music becomes so extravagant that dialogue is almost drowned out .  the only sequence in which the score almost works is during the protracted meteorite shower .  the pacing of the film is very leisurely .  after the opening introduction of the characters ( which lasts a full 22 minutes ) , we are finally dropped onto the martian surface .  then , there is another long pause in the plot for more character development , including an elaborate dance sequence in zero gravity .  the film could lose about 30 minutes and actually gain some momentum .  there are so many scenes of talking heads , discussing what we already know is going to happen , that it drags the film to a dead stop .  the good news is that the film is absolutely sumptuous to look at .  the vistas of the planet mars are majestic and awe inspiring .  the design of the numerous spacecraft and suits are all expertly drafted , with a level of realism that hasn't been seen since " 2001 : a space odyssey " .  the visual effects are just stunning , from the space walk sequences , to the visualization of evolution on earth .  the only fault come with the martians themselves , which look more like something out of a plastic model kit than something from another world .  director de palma stages some wonderfully creative scenes through out the film .  the opening sequence alone in a seemingly un-interrupted cut lasting almost 15 minutes ( an homage' to hitchcock's " rope " ) , as we are introduced to all of the characters .  scenes in the rescue ship , with its rotating centrifuge , are just amazing in their execution .  but the nagging question , is the final explanation worth all of this sturm und drang .  sadly it is not .  director brian de palma has crafted an extravagant production .  the set design and visual effects are all arresting .  but it's the comic strip denouncement that ruin what might have been a fine return to good adventurous , thought provoking science fiction .  a disappointing film , but one that might still entertain if you can settle for the visuals . 
pos@ i've never been a huge fan of jeff bridges , but i loved him in the big lebowski .  the part of jeff " the dude " lebowski was reportedly written specifically with bridges in mind , and the fit is perfect .  the dude is an unemployed denizen of los angeles , a hippie slob on a bowling team with a soft spot for white russians .  he's enjoying a leisurely soak in the tub when two thugs break into his apartment demanding to be paid for the money his wife owes .  after much pleading he convinces them they have the wrong guy , but not before they urinate on his rug .  the dude assumes that these " collection agents " were after another jeff lebowski , a famous millionaire who also lives in l . a . so he goes to meet his namesake to ask for enough money to replace his rug .  the millionaire refuses , but calls him back when he discovers his wife has been kidnaped .  he wants the dude to act as go-between for the kidnapers .  dude and his friend walter ( john goodman ) take on the task , and get caught in an intricate web of kidnapers , millionaires , high schoolers , nihilists , artists , pornographers , thugs , and league bowlers .  comedy is perhaps the most subjective of genres , so take my recommendation as you will : for me , the big lebowski is very funny .  it is an incredibly successful comedy , the ratio of laughs to intended jokes much higher than in most films .  not only are the two leads ( bridges and goodman ) funny separately and together , but each supporting character is a refreshing comic figure .  all the characters end up as the butt of jokes , but the jokes are always deserved and never contrived .  each person may be a comic caricature , but there is always a respectful self-acceptance that lets us laugh at these people without condescension .  the characters are firmly established , and they never change their behavior for a quick , cheap laugh .  it's not what they do that's funny , it's who they are , which is why the acting is so important , and so successful , in this movie .  worth mentioning are john turturro as jesus ( that's jee-zus , not hay-soos ) , the greaser bowler who's in a lusty marriage with the game ; julianne moore as the post-post-feminist artist whose work has been described as " vaginal ; " steve buscemi as the eager tagalong bowler who is constantly rebuked and ignored by teammates dude and walter ; and sam elliott as the rambling , long-winded narrator .  aside from the performances , what makes all the characters funny and interesting is the astute dialogue .  people lose trains of thought , they interrupt , they boast , they repeat themselves , they repeat their friends . . .  they sound natural .  taken with fargo , the coen brothers' last film , it is evidence that the brothers are observant listeners and gifted writers .  ethan coen is not just good at directing actors , he's also good at technical directing .  he and cinematographr roger deakins created a beautiful world on film .  perhaps " beautiful " is the wrong word ; nihilists , carpet-pissers and thugs are not objects of beauty .  but the bowling photography and a series of viking/bowling fantasy dream sequences are lovingly photographed , as though the dude himself were in charge of immortalizing them on film .  all around , the big lebowski is great , solid comedy .  outstanding acting , writing , direction and photography all combine to make this a great comic success . 
neg@ isn't it the ultimate sign of a movie's cinematic ineptitude when you can't think of much to say about it other than " it sucks " ?  one of the first official year 2000 releases , supernova is such a movie .  i can't seem to get past one-word adjectives with this one , although " boring , " " stupid " and " absurd " doesn't amount to much of a review .  a shame .  i would have been able to save myself the chore of desperately trying to elaborate .  but c'est la vie .  here goes nothing .  i'll keep it short .  i suppose the first bad omen for supernova came when director walter hill ( 48 hours ) removed his name from the movie , requesting that it be replaced with the pseudonym thomas lee .  the film's fate was sealed in many minds when struggling studio mgm declined to screen it for the press , an event usually signifying a studio's lack of confidence in a particular movie .  hill's and mgm's actions were prudent .  when the captain of medical space vessel nightingale dies in a tragic hyperjump accident , a reformed drug addict who is also the first officer , for some reason ( james spader ) is forced to take command .  the ship picks up a distress call from a nearby planet and , on arrival , picks up one survivor from an apparent accident in an abandoned mining colony .  one of the crew members ( angela bassett ) knows this passenger , who is played by peter facinelli , and has some bad feelings about it -- and we all know what that means .  this intergalactic hitchhiker is carrying some mysterious cargo -- a jellylike substance the purpose of which is unknown , though it seems to bring some form of pleasure to whoever touches it .  another one of the crew members experiences this first hand ; after spending a few minutes partially inside this glob of goo , he does some impressive handstand pushups .  evidently , touching this enigmatic egg-shaped thingie makes you younger and stronger .  how ?  why ?  the movie never bothers to explain .  soon enough though , spader and bassett are running around the ship like mad , being chased by the all-of-a-sudden-superhuman facinelli .  to be honest , i don't even remember exactly why .  i just remember that i didn't care .  supernova's plot suggested some more or less interesting ideas , such as the ball of goo being an intergalactic time bomb , but they are all dropped before they have a chance to develop into anything truly intriguing .  in fact , everything is dropped just so the actors can have some fun running around what looks like an elaborate set .  well , the effects are good , though there's hardly a studio movie with bad special effects these days so i'm not sure whether that's so remarkable an accomplishment .  the performances are hardly worth talking about .  i'm not even sure i can call what's here " performances , " though angela bassett sure is good at giving people the finger .  james spader is not a bad actor , but he proves to be one of the blandest action stars i've seen in a while , mostly because he isn't given a character with a personality .  the action scenes are just as bland , since they're pretty much just rehashes of action elements that weren't particularly entertaining the first time around .  and since the action scenes are everything to this movie , it's pretty much dead in the water .  and for the life of me , i can't figure out why it's called supernova . 
pos@  " when it's cold , molecules aren't moving .  everything is clean . "  these are the essential words of mikey carver ( elijah wood ) , a young teenage boy living in 1973 new canaan , connecticut in the ice storm .  when mikey delivers these words to a bored science class , it is unlikely that anyone realizes how much they parallel mikey's life and the lives that surround him .  his father jim ( jamey sheridan ) is rarely seen and his mother janey ( sigourney weaver ) is having an affair with married neighbor ben hood ( kevin kline ) .  ben's wife elena ( joan allen ) suspects the affair , but doesn't say anything .  meanwhile , ben's 14-year-old daughter wendy ( christina ricci ) continuously lures mikey and his younger brother sandy ( adam hann-byrd ) into sexual explorations .  tobey maguire plays paul hood , the 16-year-old narrator of the story who also happens to be the least prevalent character .  we start the film with an interesting outlook on family from paul .  he compares family to the fantastic four comic book , and even goes so far as to say that family is everybody's own anti-matter ; something everybody will return to eventually , and the farther you go , the deeper you'll return .  the ice storm is a character piece that explores a dismal time both in america , and in the individual lives portrayed in the movie .  everything parallels everything else .  the young teenagers trying to discover who they are thru drugs , sex , and alcohol is really almost identical to the parents trying to figure out the purpose in their own lives using the same methods .   " when it's cold outside , the molecules aren't moving .  everything is clean . "  everything is clean because nobody will admit what's going on .  even the president is on tv denying his wrong-doings .  how can you expect anything more out of a couple of suburban families riding the coattails of sexual revolution ?  all the sex and drugs is so obviously empty , and i think that's the point of the film .  at first viewing , the entire movie might seem empty , but then why shouldn't it parallel itself ?  you don't get to know the characters very deeply , but i think that's because nobody in the movie knows each other either .  we sadly watch two families go about their lives nearly oblivious to one another .  at first glance , you might think emotion is lost in the ending scenes because you haven't gotten to know the characters well enough to sympathize - then you realize that just might be the point , and then you do feel the pain .  the acting by all is quite good , but i particularly liked elijah wood .  he doesn't seem to be receiving as much recognition as the others , but i still found him to possess quite a real sense of being .  christina ricci is being acclaimed for her part as the misguided teenage temptress who looks for something more to her life in the pants of every available boy .  still , i say hats off remain to wood , joan allen's subtle but believable performance as a lonely , unappreciated wife , and the always excellent kevin kline .  tobey maguire did a fine job , but his character which , perhaps , was the most intact , sensible person in the story , seemed a little lost .  he was needed , but perhaps he should've been used more .  the ice storm is being hailed by many as one of the best films of the year .  i hate to say that i don't agree , but i don't .  in fact , i can think of many other films that i would rank higher than this one .  even so , it is a very good film .  it takes a lot of retrospect to fully appreciate it's art , but when you finally start seeing things in it that you didn't before , you start to grow even fonder of the characters and the story .  perhaps this is one to see , ponder , and then watch again with different eyes . 
neg@ based on the 1960s tv series that i had never seen or heard of before this movie ( be happy , i won't bore you with any lame and unnecessary comparisons ) , this film allows will smith to take a third stab at the independence day weekend box-office , after scoring huge successes with men in black ( 7/10 ) , directed by the same man who controlled this one , and independence day ( 6/10 ) .  can you say . . . the  third times not a charm ?  plot : james west and artemus gordon are chosen by the president to find the man responsible for the kidnapping of the nation's top scientists , and threatening to take over the united states within a week .  critique : i did not laugh once during this entire picture .  when you consider that this film is a part-comedy , that's not a very good sign .  i also did not tense up or particularly enjoy any of its unenergetic action sequences which provided me with little more than a few minutes time to think back to the lovely salma hayek scenes .  when you consider that the other " part " of this film is geared as an action/adventure , i would say that this another negative sign .  and when you consider that the first hour of the film was boring and a little slow , the story-line tired , reminiscent of swiss cheese and uninvolving , and the special effects interesting but worth very little inside a plot filled with lame one-liners , weak characterizations and an anti-climactic end , you pretty much have the gist of my impression of this " big " summer blockbuster .  it blows .  or as they say in french , " eet blows " .  could it be that the script was crappy because it took four people to write it ?  maybe .  could it be that most of the special effects don't show up until the last half hour , and even then , we don't see anything that its trailers hadn't already given away ?  perhaps .  or could it be that we have come to expect so much more from will smith and hollywood big-budget movies , that we cannot help but evaluate them on a scale onto their own ?  naaaaaaah !  a bad movie is a bad movie .  on a positive note , i could honestly say that i did very much enjoy the lovely performance by the adorable salma hayek , who seemed underused ( in my humble opinion ) , and lit up every bubbly scene that she was hardly in .  branagh was also fun as the scenery-munching , over-the-top bad guy , but that's pretty much where the entertainment-buck stopped .  smith and kline were static at best , the plot full of holes , and the score insignificant and derivative of a dozen others .  i would strongly advise anyone not to see this movie .  then again , there is that one scene with the lovely salma hayek tied up in a cage . . . huh . . . oh  yeah , but the rest of the movie sucked .  little known facts about this film and its stars : will smith has starred in two of the ten all-time top grossing films worldwide : 1997's summer blockbuster men in black ( 7/10 ) , for which he also recorded the grammy-winning title song , and 1996's independence day ( 6/10 ) .  he once turned down a scholarship to mit to pursue his singing career .  kevin kline is a graduate of the juilliard school of drama , and has been married to the cute-as-a-button actress phoebe cates since 1989 .  they have two kids together , greta simone and owen .  one of the buildings that gets blown up in this film has " kasdan " written on it .  lawrence kasdan is a director known to have worked with kevin on five of his movies , including the big chill , silverado , i love you to death , grand canyon and french kiss .  salma hayek gave up a successful career as a major television star in latin america and moved to the united states to start over , even though she spoke no english .  she made her feature film debut as an actress with a small role in allison anders' mi vida loca ( no , not the rickie martin video ! ) and played her first starring role in robert rodriguez's desperado opposite antonio banderas .  since then , she has made an appearance in each one of rodriguez's films .  she stands 5'2 " , was born in southeast mexico , and the daughter of a lebanese father and a mexican mother .  one of the actresses cast as branagh's lovely but lethal beauties includes bail ling , a stage and screen star in her native china who was last seen starring opposite dick gere in red corner ( 7/10 ) .  another is dutch-born frederique van der wal , who is one of the world's most recognized supermodels , having graced the cover of cosmopolitan numerous times , as well as harper's bazaar , vogue and mademoiselle . 
pos@ perhaps it's time for me to say a little about my reading habits .  i really do like to read , and i've enjoyed many books in my lifetime .  my problem is that i'm a slow reader , and not very dedicated -- i'll enjoy portions of a book and then set it down for months at a time ( it's taken me the last six weeks to get through the first one hundred pages of anna karenina , even though i'm loving the book ) .  in addition to this , i typically don't read anything created after the 19th century .  the only reason i bother with this bit of information is because i feel bad admitting , time after time , that i haven't read any of the books on which these films are based ( the only exception , i believe , is great expectations ) .  however , i don't think it should be necessary to read the book beforehand in order to judge the quality of the film .  needless to say , i haven't read the elmore leonard novel out of sight , on which steven soderbergh's new film is based .  i can't say how faithful of an adaptation it is , or if it lives up to leonard's vision .  i can say that it's a terrific film , with sharp acting , great dialogue , and pumping full of energy and style injected by soderbergh .  it's certainly a nice distraction from 1998's lineup of brainless blockbusters , all hopelessly wishing that size mattered .  out of sight proves that it doesn't .  i had originally written george clooney off as a one-note actor , incapable of depth but occasionally showing a little flair .  after seeing his latest performance in this film , i've changed my mind -- this guy can act , but he also has that forceful presence that most certainly will make him one of those $20 million superstars .  here , he plays jack foley , a middle aged guy who robs banks for a living .  he does it because it's fun , i think , but the film opens with him getting caught because his car won't start .  he goes to jail -- which is interesting -- only to break out five cinematic minutes later with the help of his friend , buddy ( ving rhames ) .  we're then introduced to karen sisco ( jennifer lopez ) , a u . s . marshall who , conveniently , is waiting with a shotgun as jack escapes .  fortunately , they take her hostage , and she and jack spend some quality time in the trunk together as buddy drives them to safety .  the central conflict arises when both jack and karen become obsessed with one another , though their respective jobs make them superficially incompatible .  we soon learn that the film is not told in sequence ( and , since this is a gritty crime comedy , flashbacks of pulp fiction should arise ) .  at first , i kind of felt that it was a gimmick , but i guess it was a gimmick in pulp fiction , too .  it's a fun gimmick , though , and soderbergh treats the material with enough humor that everything comes off naturally .  i've only seen a few of soderbergh's films ( i was impressed both with kafka and sex , lies , and videotape ) , but i think he's excellent at what he does .  he's an artist without making it obvious , and without being pretentious , which is always admirable .  he uses tricks , yes ( lots of freeze-frame stuff here ) , but it all adds to the smooth and quirky currents in the film .  as i said , clooney is terrific , and he's matched by lopez .  lopez is , of course , beautiful , but she can act , too .  i can sense that she's honing in on her skills , for she comes off more natural here than she has in any of her previous ventures ( not that stone gave her much help in the loathsome u-turn ) .  the two actors have arresting chemistry with one another -- the best scene in the film , by far , is the seduction scene .  the brilliance of this scene is also due , in part , to soderbergh , for he cuts back and forth from their quiet discussion in a bar to the physical act which takes place a few minutes later .  the scene is a series of soft nuances and glances , layered upon light dialogue , and the result is one of the better love scenes in recent cinema -- meaningful and engrossing .  the supporting cast is strong , led by the always-reliable ving rhames .  dennis farina , who plays karen's father , is good , as is don cheadle as the profoundly stupid villain .  steve zahn , who plays jack's nearly-brain dead accomplice glenn , steals all of his scenes ( and that's in a film where every scene is already at a high level ) .  all of the actors are helped by the dialogue and the intelligently-constructed script by scott frank .  out of sight is certainly a light film , although there are a few heavy moments that will linger in the memory .  overall , i can recommend it simply as great entertainment .  not every film has to change your life , and it's nice to see a movie that uses the art to tell a great story and simply to entertain its viewers .  as for the book , this film is good enough to make me believe that there might be something in the text worth looking at . 
neg@  " be gentle , " urges natasha henstridge to matthew perry in " the whole nine yards . "   " i haven't made love in five years . "   " neither have i , " rebuts perry .   " i'm married ! "  if jonathan lynn's latest comedy relied simply on jokes of that caliber--and it certainly tries--then it'd be an innocuous if rather obvious little film .  instead , its failings go much deeper .  first off , who hasn't had enough of the tough wiseguy intimidates the timid wise guy genre ?  if you want to make a pretty penny or two in hollywood nowadays simply write a " comedy " which pairs a robert de niro/james caan/bruce willis type with a billy crystal/hugh grant/matthew perry type and wait for the royalties to roll in .  who's next ?  jack nicholson and martin short ?  it certainly doesn't have to be funny .   " the whole nine yards " is not a particularly funny film , but it is borderline offensive .  offensive in the way it continues a trend of poking fun at career criminals who wouldn't think twice about pushing your mother-in-law off the brooklyn bridge with her feet encased in concrete .  that might sound like a funny sight gag , but the problem is these films have long since lost sight of the fact that taking a human life isn't all that funny to begin with .  when the corpse is placed in a car , doused with gasoline , set ablaze and referred to as " barbecue , " it makes you wonder when all this playing killing for laughs is going to end .   " the whole nine yards " is also offensive in so much as its three central female characters are portrayed as nothing more than sex objects .  rosanna arquette plays a slutty , chain-smoking french canadian who's married to matthew perry's none-too-successful dentist .  it's an unflattering role made all the more so by the unflattering outfits--and unflattering situations--into which arquette is thrust .  then there's natasha henstridge ( " species " i and ii ) who plays the well-to-do wife of contract killer bruce willis .  she gets involved with perry's character when he comes to chicago hoping to negotiate a finder's fee with mob boss yanni gogolack ( kevin pollack , transposing his vs with his ws ) after willis' jimmy the tulip tudeski moves in next door .  henstridge and perry's characters hitting it off is about as likely as bruce and demi getting back together .  perry might have the charm but he doesn't have the physical attributes of a traditional leading man , especially in close-up .  most objectified of the bunch is amanda peet , who turns in a sexually-ripe performance as perry's dental assistant with , it transpires , questionable career goals .  peet's gratuitous nude scene proves how low this movie will stoop to keep its audience from dropping off .  when " my cousin vinny " is the highpoint of a directorial career including such forgettable films as " clue , " " greedy , " and " sgt .  bilko , " you have to wonder if lynn chose the wrong career path .  perry's pratfalling goofiness coupled with willis' likable hardness could have had some potential but with no script to work with , and a director who seems to be watching from the wings , their characters run out of gas quickly . 
pos@ any movie about the underground music scene is a difficult beast to master .  any meaning found in the underground is usually lost by the dumbing-down of the experience to make it " more accessible " to the general public .  or the film is produced and directed by people that have about enough understanding of the subject matter that they ought to work as production assistants for vh1 .  human traffic , a new film exploring the british underground party/rave scene and the people immersed in the world of clubbing , pubbing , drugs , sex , and the beautiful , beautiful music , is an example of how it really ought to be done .  the film follows five brits in their young twenties during a wild weekend of parties , drugs , dancing , sex , pop culture discussions , relationships , and wanking off in front of a mirror while mum interrupts .  the cast of character consists of jip ( john simm ) , our narrator , who has a bit of a problem with his willy , known as mr . floppy .  koop ( shaun parkes ) , our black dj maestro , who has insecurity issues , afraid his girlfriend nina ( nicola reynolds ) is shagging other men .  nina herself can't stand her mcjob and longs for the freedom of the weekends .  lulu ( lorraine pilkington ) , jip's best mate , is tired of her cheating boyfriends .  and moff ( danny dyer ) can't seem to escape the black hole of his awful life .  the film follows these five individuals during one weekend as each of them discovers love , friendship , and self-fulfillment , all against the raging party background .  human traffic is proof that cinema can still tell us deep stories while being visually alive , as director justin kerrigan's subtle use of the camera lets the audience become part of the action .  the use of direct communication to the audience by the collection of characters works well , making the viewer the subconscious mind for the characters .  dialogue is crisp and moves with an even pace , and the acting is confident .  however , the two females leads tend to promote their relationships and dialogue with a bit of unneeded urgency that shows through when poignancy is needed .  human traffic does not try to explain the rave scene .  instead , it gives the audience the ability to listen to the people inside it , letting you choose your own convictions about this powerful musical movement that brings together strangers , friends , and lovers for one blissful night of music and peace . 
neg@ gord brody ( tom green ) is an aspiring animator approaching thirty who still lives in parents jim ( rip torn ) and julie's ( julie hagerty , " airplane " ) basement .  as dad declares all out war , gord secures a job in a cheese sandwich factory in far off la and sets off to make his dreams come true .  gord doesn't make much of a go on his first attempt and lands back home with fawning mom and outraged dad in " freddy got fingered . "  tom green cowrites ( with " tom green show " scribe derek harvie ) , directs and stars in what is essentially tom green's primal scream .  so , if tom green screams in an empty theater , does he make a sound ?  it's clear that " freddy got fingered " is at least partially autobiographical and green sure has one hell of a complex about his dad ( mom gets off easier when sonny boy advises her to go out and have sex with basketball players and greeks ) .  while this may be of interest to his hard core fans , there's little about green's mania on display here to recommend this movie to anyone else .  the film starts promisingly enough , with a well executed skateboarding scene through a shopping mall set to the sex pistols' 'problem' ( green's put together a first rate soundtrack ) and yes , i laughed a few times .  green's flummoxing of a security guard with psychotic ramblings and his attempt to draw , make music and eat at the same time ( the 'daddy would you like some sausages' scene repeatedly shown in the film's trailer ) are inspired comedy .  but what's funny about a paraplegic girlfriend who gets turned on by having her legs caned or a skateboarding injury that results in an exposed kneecap ?  a baby delivery bit shows some groan-inducing promise until enough blood is splattered to coagulate the laughs .  younger ( by three years ) brother freddy's internment at the institute for sexually abused children does nothing but confirm one's worst fears regarding the film's title and green's infamous 'handling' of a real horse , while not nearly as shocking as it would seem , doesn't make sense .  by the time he repeats the gag with an elephant at film's end , the overall effect is numbness .  while " freddy got fingered " has the admirable end result of depicting the harm in demeaning a child's self esteem , it's essentially a whole lot of tom green running around being noisy .  rip torn , what were you thinking ? 
pos@ no humans were harmed , tested or tasted in the making of this film .  all recipes are fictions .  twentieth century fox does not condone cannibalism .  a psychological thriller that will scare you to the depth of your soul !  director/writer antonia bird shows us that the most terrifying horror is not provided by giant beasts , but instead by monsters lurking in ourselves . .   " . . they were a party of settlers in covered wagon times and they had to resent to cannibalism in order to stay alive . . "  this true story , briefly mentioned in " the shining " , has no turned into a 143 minutes long motion picture .  in 1847 , the united states was a land of pioneers , of gold-starved americans making their way west .  it was a period of manifest destiny , the inevitability of the country extending its boundaries , stretching out its arms and consuming all the land it could .  capt . john boyd ( guy pearce ) has become both a " hero " and a victim during this period of relentless consumption . . .  in ways he could never have imagined .  boyd's journey to hell begins when he is awarded for an act of cowardice during a horrific mexican-american war battle earns him banishment to a desolate military outpost , a waystation for western travelers in the barren and icy sierra nevada mountains in california .  upon his arrival he is greeted by a small , motley group of soldiers , including his commanding officer , hart ( jeffrey jones ) , a previously intelligent and sophisticated man who has lost his aristocratic origin in the heat of battle and has pretty much given up on life ; toffler ( jeremy davies ) , the fort's personal emissary to the lord ; knox ( stephen spinella ) , the veterinarian that plays doctor , who never met a bottle of whiskey he didn't like ; reich ( neal mcdonough ) , the no-nonsense soldier of the group ; and the seriously " over-medicated " cleaves ( david arquette ) , a cook whose meals are inspired more by peyote than culinary ambitions .  into this cold , bleak and bizarre world staggers a stranger , colqhoun ( robert carlyle ) , a half-starved scot who had been traveling with a group of settlers until they became snowbound .  seeking refuge in a cave , they soon ran out of food - and were forced to consume one another .  colqhoun barely escaped becoming an hors d'oeuvre himself .  our heroes then decide to journey through the mountains to find the survivors , and colqhoun tags along to help out .  soon it becomes clear that colqhoun's tale has ramifications beyond cannibalism and the will to survive .  it involves an old indian myth called weendigo , which states that a man who eats the flesh of another steals that person's strength , spirit and very essence .  his hunger becomes an insatiable craving : the more he eats , the more he wants , and the stronger he becomes .  there can never be enough , and death is the only escape . .  it's all fairly sickening and you have to have a healthy stomach to see the whole movie through .  as professionally made as the movie is , you have to wonder who they thought would come piling into the theater to see this .  teen-age horror fans won't care because none of the soldiers look remotely like neve campell .  older folks might show up when they hear that the movie is actually a satire about the pioneer spirit , but they'll be disappointed once all the raw meat starts getting waved in their faces .  but jokes aside , this is a film that is well worth watching .  it has wonderful and mature characters , that few horror film s can boast of and a strangely effective story that continues to electrify you till the end .  the two main characters are also the most interesting .  boyd is a simple , honest man tiered of war , killing and fear .  his sacred wish is to live a normal , quite life away from gunpowder and blood .  colqhoun is different .  he proves that a man , on the brink of death , would do anything to stay alive , including sacrificing his own soul .  he believes so much in this indian myth that he starts to change physically .  it is the power of the human mind and conviction that make miracles happen .  the atmosphere in " ravenous " is macabre and bizarre , scary and surreal .  completely isolated from the rest of the world , stands fort spencer .  here time stands still , and nothing changes .  the inhabitants are soldiers driven by war and pillage .  they are all somehow losers of society that have been banished -- men that are used to killing and have not done anything else in their entire life .  men that are nothing , and has nothing to loose .  the result is some sort of cabin fever .  cannibalism is more like a sick game for them .  since they find no pleasure in living , they find some excitement in killing and dying .  it's like " who's going to die first ? "  the unchangeable icy landscape , where birds do not sing and even wind doesn't move the leaves on the trees , resembles kubrick's " the shining " .  it's hard to not get mad here !  one of the scary aspects of the film is a strange connection that the viewer establishes with the characters , and starts to understand them , although they have turned into half crazed killers .  music is another factor that strengthens the atmosphere .  a strange musical score , composed by michael nyman ( the piano ) and damon albarn , that often seems out of place , and in complete contrast to the image , somehow reflects the characters' twisted reactions on the world and their situation .  the director herself stated that it was " ok to laugh " during the picture .  and i must admit that it is often very funny , in a strange way ( such as the wonderful quote : " . . it's  lonely being a cannibal .  you don't get that many friends . . . "  or when colqhoun is quoting ben franklin , saying " eat to live .  don't live to eat . " ) . but  mostly it is frightening and shocking as it goes deeper into the minds of these strange men and we witness their psychological change .  every actor does a great job .  especially robert carlyle as the sinister and intelligent cannibal , and guy pearce as the moral and honest soldier , nagged by his undeserved honor .  this strange couple resemble lestat and lois in neil jordan's 'interview with the vampire' .  actually there are many amusing parallels and connections to vampire movies , since the topics are so alike .   " ravenous " starts wonderfully and continues to shock and scare until it gets to the finale , where it looses focus and gets too primitive and rather boring .  however these little failures don't diminish the impression .  this is a bizarre dark comedy about the human mind and its change in different situations .  it is a scary fable about the monster that lurks in everyone's soul , a dark side which we're all trying to hide -- but it's there -- always .  it is one of the most frightening and successful horror films since " the shining " .   " . . i said no food .  i didn't say there was nothing to eat . . . "  - colqhoun , ravenous 
neg@ hello kids .  today the movie studios want to take over my critical review , and somehow persuade you that _armageddon_ , the summer's biggest blockbuster , is a film for everybody .  and remember , if a film is for _everybody_ , and if it makes the most money for the summer , it _must_ be good , right ?  armageddon is a comedy , with a capital " c " .  it stars bruce willis , who has a hundred one-liners !  it has a tiny rock land directly in the middle of a heated argument in new york city ! !  and , chuckle , chuckle , one of those new yorkers , _survives_ , with charcoal all over his face ! !  snorkle , * sniff * , hiccup .  and it has steve buscemi as a _genius_ who wants to work for an oil rig ?  knee-slap ! !  isn't this just so , so , funny ! ?  armageddon also has romance , with a capital " r " .  it has a tender moment between * forbidden lovers * ben affleck and liv tyler , with , with , animal crackers !  and it has will patton as a long lost husband trying to reunite with his separated wife and child , who thinks he's a salesman !  gurgle , * sniff * , awwwww .  and it has steve buscemi spewing more one-liners about minors and strippers .  umm , moving right along . . .  armageddon also has lots of action , with a capital " a " .  not just any action sequence would do .  it must have _original_ action sequences that are designed to thrill .  like , drill , darn it , drill ! ! !  and , let's have inept people destroy the mir space station ! !  can't you hear your heart beating ! ?  and steve buscemi goes crazy and starts shooting at people ! !  what drama ! !  lastly , armageddon is out there to save the planet , with a capital " p " .  this can't be any old thriller--we must have an asteroid , the size of texas head straight for earth ! !  and , and , we must have beautiful scenic worldwide shots , like paris , blown up .  and , and , we must have peoples of all colors , nations , and religions , join hand in hand for one final , hopeful , hug .  the final sequence , where muslims in prostrate worship stand up--in domino fashion--to cheer the victory , filled me with such emotional goo that i wanted to , to , to rip the screen into shreds ! !  i mean , i mean , cheer for ecstatic joy !   ( it was over ) .  comedy . " c " .  romance .   " r " .  action .   " a " .  planet .   " p " .  okay , kids , what does that spell ?  seriously , folks .  any film that could take the indie-films' most valuable talents , and throw it all away with a bruce willis vehicle , a hundred-million dollar budget , but have cheap-o sets and lousy special effects , is , bottom line , living proof that hell exists , and has made a multi-picture deal with universal .  in the midst of all the action , the terseness , the one-liners , the fake sets , the overall waste of time , i recognized matt malloy playing an underwritten nasa technician ( " malloy , give me a reading " ) .  remember him ?  he was a principal player in last year's _in the company of men_ , a film that was more powerful , shocking , terrifying , funny , and shocking than _armageddon_ could ever aspire to be .  _armageddon_ cost over $100 million to make .  _itcom_ cost a paltry $30 , 000 .  need i say more ? 
pos@ all those who were offended by there's something about mary should not tread in the waters of american pie , a gratuitously sexual rollercoaster ride of raunch .  and while this uproariously funny , gross-out summer movie is basically an exercise in bad taste , it also demonstrates a surprising sweetness in the end .  american pie is the latest entry to the offensive teenage-targeted fare this season .  i must question the studio that releases a movie like this .  the producers are aiming these films at the 15-24 crowd , but while pushing the limit of possible sex and violence in an r-rated film .  some have even been narrowly avoiding the dreaded nc-17 , a rating the mpaa gives when the adult content surpasses even that of a restricted movie .  american pie was threatened with an nc-17 , but after snipping a few scenes from the finished product , it was given an r . but at least this new addition is not as careless and unforgiving as something like south park .  it is sick , perverse , and ultimately disgusting - not to mention extremely funny .  american pie is about four desperate teenagers who make a pact to lose their virginity by prom night .  jim ( jason biggs ) , kevin ( thomas ian nicholas ) , oz ( chris klein ) and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) are a quartet of high school students in their senior year who think sex is something they must experience to be successful in their lives ahead .  jim inquires what it feels like when you reach third base , to which one of his friends replies : `like warm apple pie . . . ' .  of course , this prompts the scene unfairly exposed in the trailers , in which jim and a freshly baked pie have a very intimate moment in the kitchen corner .  there are many moments , such as this , in which director paul weitz uses a game-plan similar to the one frequently displayed in mary : to cause the audience to break down laughing in disgusting disbelief .  american pie is a hard-fought effort that has replenishing rewards if you manage to stick with it .  i loved the young cast in this movie .  consider the subject matter that these actors have dealt with , obviously suggestiveness never rivaled in any of their previous projects , and you should appreciate their performances .  biggs is more than enjoyable , and chris klein ( who recently played a similar jock in election ) is obviously a young talent on the rise .  but in a teen-dominated movie , the best performance comes from comedian eugene levy ( of television's sctv ) , who is unexpectedly brilliant as jim's uneasy father .  scenes in which the familiar father-son conversations are brought to interesting new levels are the funniest moments to be found in american pie .  after levy discovers jim's new use for apple pie , he tells him , `i did a fare share of that sort of thing when i was your age .  but i never used baked goods . '  it is performances such as his , and bill murray's in rushmore , that are often unfairly dismissed when awards are handed out .  there are some less-than-original aspects of the film .  a bathroom incident involving finch and a bottle of ex-lax is something we've seen before .  if weitz is planning to take after the farrelly brothers , then this is a decidedly unwise move : the same prank was pulled in the brother's dumb and dumber , and used to greater effect .  secondly , the characters are forced into a half-hearted climax that seems more artificial than amusing .  but at one point , in which we discover that american pie does have a heart of it's own , biggs asks his buddies why he's going through so much pressure for something that's `not very important anyway . '  and so we realize that while the film is expressive about a subject that is hardly appropriate , it still manages to be mature .  in it's own way . 
neg@ this film is worth seeing for those who want to see what mick jagger looks like when sporting an abe lincoln beard .  the rock and roller is asked to carry the film as the action antihero of australian legend . . . ned  kelly , the so-called robin hood of the aussies .  but he fails to be convincing , in my opinion he is better suited to play gene kelly than ned kelly .  the film opens to a b/w prologue of ned kelly bravely going to his execution .  then it goes to technicolor and ned is seen in what goes for flashback , coming home from jail after a 3-year sentence to see his mom and reacquaint himself with the large kelly family .  this scene is set in 1871 .  in the background we hear the booming voice of waylon jennings , as he sings shel silverstein's lyrics , which tells -- of ned's hatred for the british rule and hope for ireland to be a republic .  ned says a debt must be paid . . .  as he hears voices from his dead father , his class-divided country , and his conscience , all telling him to get revenge .  so begins ned's romp through australia's outback , seeking justice for all the wrongs his people have suffered .  he begins by stealing horses , after complaining about the unfair tax law on horses that stray , which favors the rich landowners .  when he's only 20 he forms a gang , causing him to hide the rest of his life from the police , who put a price on his head of two thousand pounds .  when ned's mother ( clarissa kaye ) is jailed on a false charge of abetting criminals and sentenced to 3-5 years , ned offers to surrender in exchange for his mother's freedom .  when the authorities refuse , the kelly brothers go on a robbing rampage , burning mortgages of the poor found in postal vaults and murdering some soldiers .  rampaging through the outback , they gather sympathy among the poor and lower classes , who don't trust the traps ( police ) .  spoiler to follow in the next paragraph .  in the climax , kelly and his gang plan to ambush a train with british police , but someone kelly trusted tips the police on the train and kelly is trapped in a saloon and captured .  ned's brothers commit suicide rather than be taken alive .  but kelly's gang escapes , as ned heroically has the police go after only him and his brothers , as they become decoys .  this was a flat presentation , hardly touching an emotional button on what all the fuss was about over ned kelly's call for justice .  jagger didn't have a prayer in succeeding in this dry script offered by ian jones and tony richardson .  the story failed to focus on australia , seemingly a more british film than australian .  under richardson's lackluster direction , all jagger seemed to do , was proclaim his innocence and vow revenge , which soon became a shrill cry .  if you want to see a better film about ned kelly , catch " mad dog morgan " ( 76 ) , a much truer and more daring version , with dennis hopper giving a much better characterization of ned kelly's madness , something this film could only do in a ho-hum manner . 
pos@ `we run tings .  tings don't run we . '  -sound advice from capone ( paul campbell ) to his squaddie ( or partner ) , floyd ( winston bell ) .  jamaican film , shot entirely on video , featuring a standard cop movie plot mixed with a dash of john woo-styled brotherhood morals ( and a little gunplay ) .  capone , a tough as nails super cop , gets a transfer back to his hometown of kingston after successfully taking down some gangsters that have broken into his home ( while he was with his lady ) and killed his partner in front of him .  when he arrives , he discovers that the ghetto where he grew up has gotten worse , thanks mainly to the crime boss wonie ( jamaican film veteran carl bradshaw ) , so named because his left hand has been amputated and replaced by a grasping hook ) .  capone discovers that wonie has been smuggling guns inside shipments of charity supplies for the area churches and , much to his disappointment , also finds out his childhood friend ratty ( mark danvers ) has been helping him .  torn between doing his job and protecting his best friend , capone must make some hard decisions in order to make things right again .  directed deftly by first time jamaican filmmaker chris browne ( assistant director for such american films as how stella got her groove back and instinct ) , one hardly notices the film was shot on video after a while .  shots are handled so efficiently that they quickly take on the nuances of the aforementioned john woo films , although the action isn't as hyperkinetic as most of woo's films are .  the action scenes are handled with a kind of flair though , and eventually begin to take on a life of their own ( beyond the hong kong films that they are obviously patterned after ) .  the make-up effects are particularly good in these scenes as well , with flawless squib work on display from the effects team .  the cast is superb and listening to their dialogue , spoken with thick jamaican accents ( half of which have to be subtitled because of their extensive use of slang ) , just adds to the interest .  paul campbell , as the `loose cannon' capone , essays his role perfectly , displaying the right amount of menace and compassion at the right times .  mark danvers evokes sympathy as ratty , the part-time gun smuggler who is also trying to help the community by building football fields and organizing block parties to bring people together .  unfortunately , carl bradshaw is given the least to do and his character as the crime boss seems ineffective ( largely because his underlings seem to run all over him ) , but then again , that could be the way his character was intended to be portrayed .  the music in the film is composed of all reggae songs , and the soundtrack was produced by grammy award winning artists , sly and robbie ( who have worked with the likes of the rolling stones , maxi priest , bob dylan , james brown , grace jones , herbie hancock , bootsy collins , and carly simon among others ) .  the end credit song , `we run tings' , by the group red dragon , is pretty decent and carries on the theme of the movie established early on by the quote that opens this review .  oddly enough , desmond ballentine ( who plays the character deportee ) is well known as a pioneer in the realm of `gangsta' reggae as the performer ninjaman , and he doesn't contribute a single song to the film ( that i could see ) , which is virtually unheard of here in the us .  at the time of this writing , third world cop has been put into limited theatrical release in the us , coming off of a six-month box-office breaking run in jamaica , where it holds the position as highest grossing film of all time ( bringing in $21 million in jamaica , which is roughly $500 , 000 us ) .  palm pictures ( the company that released the offbeat , but entertaining six-string samurai ) is the company releasing the film and considering that their main focus is the dvd market , i can imagine that a disc will be available once the film has left theaters .  chris blackwell , founder of palm pictures , was also involved in the production of another jamaican box-office smash in 1981 entitled countryman , so i'd say he has a pretty good track record .  overall , third world cop is a pretty entertaining homage to the films of john woo , ringo lam , tsui hark , and many other action films by directors from hong kong .  if action films are your thing and you don't mind intermittent subtitles , then you can't go wrong with this film .  the performances and the story are solid ( if only a little cliched ) and the action is tight .  i'm not sure what the other jamaican films released in that country are like , but apparently third world cop's honors are well deserved . 
neg@ capsule : not as bad a sequel as crow 2 or batman & robin , but still horribly putrid , cheesy and ill-conceived .  this one belongs in saturday morning cartoons . . .  extended review : you know , about halfway through this movie , i realized that if you hacked out everything except the fight scenes , you'd have a damn fine 35 minutes or so of flashy , hong kong style martial arts .  beautifully choreographed by robin shou , who also plays liu kang , the fight scenes are both mind-blowing and graceful , acrobatic enough to make olympic gymnasts weep .  this is what made the original so fun , but unfortunately for the sequel , we are without the frenetic directorial style of paul anderson .  instead , they got john r . leonetti , the cinematographer for the original mortal kombat .  not a good choice .  while the fight scenes are brutal and eye-popping , the rest of the movie looks like standard made for tv fare .  the acting is sub-par , which i could endure if it were not for a . ) the director's style , b . ) the special effects , & c . ) the treatment of the story and characters .  a . ) mr . leonetti should go back to lighting , in my opinion .  i could say dozens of bad things about him : he way overuses slow-motion , he has no eye for action , he can't get even mediocre performances out of actors , and so on .  but by far his worst move was the way he treated jumping .  apparantly , everybody can now fly .  hell , i'm all for the occaisional gravity defying flip kick and whatnot , but not when it happens every few minutes , and is done so poorly .  better jumping and acrobatics has been seen in xena : warrior princess .  in short , they should have gotten paul anderson back .  or at least let robin shou direct . . .  b . ) unlike the first one , whose sfx were vibrant and somewhat realistic , mk : a's special effects are bland , fake looking , and overall just plain bad .  i counted at least half a dozen times that blue-screening was painfully obvious .  had this movie been made in the 80's , it would have been ground-breaking .  but in today's industry , it doesn't even look finished .  c . ) now for the _really_ bad parts .  i admit , i'm an avid fan of the mortal kombat series .  the games are amusing diversions , an easy way to work off stress and anger .  the first movie was a mindlessly fun thrillride .  this could have been a really cool movie .  it isn't .  the writers apparantly deemed it necessary to lower the target audience from teens to preschoolers .  some of the plot elements are just plain stupid .  how stupid ?  take , for instance , how our heroes move around .  they use giants spheres the roll around underground , supposedly at thousands of miles per hour . . . oh  boy . . .  even worse is the treatment of secondary characters .  blink and you'll miss 'em .  most characters had more depth in the video games .  if you thought batman & robin was bad about this , you ain't seen nothin' yet .  a good 75% of the characters are introduced , kick somebody around a bit , then either die or are forgotten about .  there's no explanation at all for this .  and for the final blasphemy , the fight that all the fans were waiting rabidly for , the fight hyped to be the most intricate of the movie , lasted about 3 minutes and then just sort of . . . ended .  it almost made me weep .  to sum it all up , rent it on video , and fast-forward through everything except the fight scenes . 
pos@ martin scorsese's triumphant adaptation of edith wharton's the age of innocence is a stunning film for the quintessential new york filmmaker , the man who brought the streets of taxi driver and mean streets to life .  it seems like an odd choice for scorsese to do a period piece in the early 1900's , but the fact that he pulls it off so brilliantly is a wonder , and a testament to the greatness of scorsese as a filmmaker .  this is a gorgeous visual experience that it surely one of scorsese's finest .  newland archer ( day-lewis ) is a prestigious lawyer who is engaged to may welland ( ryder ) , a somewhat empty and shallow new yorker , who belongs to a prestigious family and is quite beautiful .  the marriage is one which will unite two very prestigious families , in a society where nothing is more important than the opinions of others .  on the day that archer is to announce his engagement to may , countess ellen olenska ( pfeiffer ) , cousin of may , walks into archer's life .  archer is immediately captivated , and finds himself in love with ellen .  archer is also bound by the limits of new york society , which is an intrusive as any other in the world .  archer finds himself having a secret love affair in his mind with countess olenska , attempting to keep her in his mind while trying not to lose his social status .  the film's subject matter may seem alien to scorsese , but the theme is definitely not .  it is a theme of forbidden romance , guilty pleasures , and the consequences causes because of those actions .  there is a painstakingly flawed hero , and his choice between the life he wants , and the life he is destined for .  in truth , it is a film about a society the audience doesn't know about , but wants to find out more , much like the society of goodfellas or even kundun .  the performances are absolutely breathtaking .  day-lewis portrays more mental anguish in his face than one man should be forced to take .  pfeiffer is marvelous as countess olenska , a mix of passion and beauty that the audience would die for as well .  ryder is probably the gem of the group , for it is her quiet presence that overwhelms the plot , and slowly pushes day-lewis closer and closer to his eventual ending .  the supporting cast is also wonderful , with several characters so singular that they are indelible in one's memory .  scorsese definitely has a passion for filmmaking .  his lavish and sumptuous set design and marvelous recreation of new york is a wondrous sight .  he literally transports the viewer to another world with incredible imagery .  his script is also excellent , slow in buildup , with a rapid conclusion and a fantastic ending that has to be seen to be believed .  it is difficult to make a period piece gripping : scorsese , however , does it beautifully .  the famous cameras of the legendary director are also everywhere .  he is patient , but he films everything and anything remotely important .  the cameras sweep , pan , track , and do more than they've ever done , but they are so subtle , one doesn't realize he's watching all the scorsese hallmarks until a 2nd viewing .  the central tracking shot is probably longer and more complex than the famous goodfellas shot , but the viewer doesn't notice it , because we want to see more of this gorgeous world .  there are a few deft touches of filmmaking that are simply outstanding , and joanne woodward' narration is exquisite .  not a fast film like goodfellas , this shares more in common with kundun than anything else .  and like kundun , this is a slow-starting film that truly shines , when given the chance to fully breathe and bloom in the end .  a beautiful film by a director continuing to challenge himself year after year . 
neg@ did i do something bad ?  i must have , because sitting through this movie was sheer punishment .  here's the plot .  ricky ( jeff goldblum ) is producer of the good-buy network , one of those 24-hour home shopping channels .  the new boss ( robert loggia ) plans to can ricky's behind if he doesn't turn the previous months' flat sales numbers around , and to add to his problems , ricky also has to work with kate ( kelly preston ) , the ivy league wunderkind whom the boss has brought with him .  kate and ricky don't get along and don't have any great ideas until they meet g ( eddie murphy ) , a spiritualist who sees something positive in everything .  his soothing voice and simple logic makes people feel good , and it's this quality that will make g the new gbn television star and the key to the network's success .  the first problem is a flaw in the plot .  sure , g makes people feel good .  sure , we're told that most people feel guilty after buying an impulse item , no matter how wealthy they might be , and i'll even believe that g talks a talk that allows people to feel good about what they've bought .  but , hey , that's after they've bought it .  why do sales skyrocket the first time g is on camera ?  far from trying to sell the product , g instead blathers on about how you don't even need the thing .  someone please tell me how this is supposed to move merchandise in the first place .  you might say that people feel good about what they've bought , so they come back and by more , but due to the simple fact that the first round of sales in inexplicable , i'm not convinced this is what the filmmakers had in mind .  the whole movie is therefore seriously undermined because the key point in the plot is never credible .  another problem is in the humor .  you know , if you see that eddie murphy is in a movie , i think it is not unreasonable for you to expect that the film is a comedy .  whoa , partner , are you in for a surprise .  holy man is not funny .  murphy , the one asset you'd think this movie has ( remember how they brought him in at the last minute to save best defense ?  - then again , maybe you don't ) is seriously reigned in .  the script gives him almost nothing to work with , and it seems as though director stephen herek kept him toned down so that the other actors in the film wouldn't be left as window dressing .  there's only one moment in the film where murphy is allowed to let loose , and it lasts for three shouted words , which seem totally out of place as a result .  pathetic .  in all , there are about three jokes that work in the entire picture , and they're not even that great .  as a side note , there are some cameo appearances such as dan marino pitching a contraption which allows you to cook off of your car engine , and james brown introducing a medic-alert device that shouts " help me ! "  just like the hardest working man in show business at the push of a button , but these never cause your personal laugh-o-meter to rise above the level of mild bemusement .   " well , " you ask , " surely there must be some convincing performances to make up for the lack of humor . "  think again , buckwheat .  jeff goldblum disappoints .  kelly preston is flat ( but not like that ) .  robert loggia , in the kind of role for which he has been virtually typecast , can't do anything with it .  the script is part of the problem , but these actors don't even look like they believe in the move they're making .  they look a lot like they're bored .  just like the audience .  so what do you have when the humor is absent from your comedy , and the acting is like the siberian steppes ?  a film that drags more than a dropped anchor .  but wait !  as if these problems don't make the film slow enough , the screenplay's pacing makes the movie even slower !  it takes the entire first half hour to establish the movie's premise , then more time as the film wades through a tortuous ( and seemingly mandatory ) romance between ricky and kate , and a sub-plot involving a conniving pr man ( eric mccormack ) who wants to discredit g and take over ricky's job as producer .  when the pr guy's plan is foiled , the film is climaxes , we're treated to that little epilogue , and then we can all go home , right ?  wrong .  the movie goes on for another half hour !  continental drift is the indy 500 compared to the pace of holy man !  the only thing holy about holy man will surely be the number of people exclaiming " holy ! !#% that movie was awful ! "  this one is for the truly pious . 
pos@ contact ( pg ) there's a moment late in robert zemeckis's contact where i was reminded of why i started writing movie reviews in the first place .  we see a scientist , dressed in a silvery space suit , walking tentatively across a narrow walkway leading inside a compact , spherical space pod , unaware of what awaits when the ball literally drops .  anticipation , excitement , anxiety , fear--the audience experiences it all the emotional tension right with the character , nervously , breathlessly eager to see what lies ahead .  it is this sense of discovery , the anticipation of which and its accompanying exhilaration , that makes this adaptation of the carl sagan novel such magical , captivating entertainment .  jodie foster stars as dr . ellie arroway , a brilliant astronomer who dedicates her entire life to searching outer space for extraterrestrial radio signals .  and i mean life--after losing her entire family when she was young , the only thing occupying ellie's world is this quest to discover life beyond this earth .  after dealing with much skepticism on the part of government officials and wealthy financiers , ellie receives her vindication when she stumbles upon an incoming radio transmission from the distant star vega , which includes instructions on building an interstellar transport .  from this synopsis , contact does not sound too different to most films about alien contact , but there is a whole lot more to this intelligent film than the sci-fi hook .  the alien contact angle generates a great amount of suspense and awe , but perhaps more than anything else , contact is a character study of ellie , whose obsession with empirical , scientific evidence has erased all belief in a higher power .  the irony is that , while admitting to having no religious faith , she holds onto her belief in extraterrestrial life with such passion and conviction that it becomes , in a sense , a religion in its own right .  it would be easy for scripters james v . hart and michael goldenberg , in trying to paint a positive image of the heroine , to champion her scientific beliefs over religious ones , but they wisely eschew easy answers , giving equal time to both sides , and in so doing depict ellie as not completely sane .  in the end , there is no right or wrong , nor is there one side that comes off more positive in the other , even slightly so--there are just two very viable points of view , each with their own merits , each with their own faults .  the complex role of ellie is an actress's dream , and foster , a virtual shoo-in for yet another best actress oscar nomination next year , more than rises to the challenge .  she conveys intelligence , determination , warmth , and , in a gutsy move , always on edge .  we root for ellie and feel for her , but we also feel at times that she goes too far .  contact is clearly foster's vehicle , but others are given their chance to shine in smaller roles .  matthew mcconaughey , who receives outrageously high billing for his smallish role , holds his own as the religious counterpoint to ellie , spiritual scholar and government adviser palmer joss ( however , his main storyline , the tentative palmer-ellie romance , is the film's weakest subplot ) .  john hurt is effectively creepy as s . r .  hadden , the wealthy eccentric who provides ellie with her research funding .  angela bassett continues to impress in her bit role as white house aide rachel constantine .  most memorable of all , though , are tom skerritt and james woods , who play rival scientist dr . david drumlin and national security adviser michael litz , respectively ; both , especially skerritt , embody these asshole characters that the audience hissed just about every single one of their appearances .  zemeckis comes off of his three-year break in top shape .  always known as a director of effects-laden extravaganzas , it comes as no surprise that contact's visual effects are quite stunning .  the central space journey is more than a little reminiscent of the close of 2001 : a space odyssey , but with more advanced technology at his disposal , zemeckis's voyage is even trippier than stanley kubrick's yet more wondrously pure .  and zemeckis doesn't resist the urge to use the always-interesting incorporate-actors-into-existing-film-footage effect , which is every bit as seamless here as it was in forrest gump .  effects , however , are confined to only a few scenes and clearly take a back seat to the drama , emotion , and pure wonder , which zemeckis proved to be quite adept at in gump .  it says a lot that , in a summer science fiction film such as this , it's not so much the effects that stay with you as it is the drama and the issues that are raised .  the thought-provoking , two-hour-plus contact is a much-welcome change of pace from summer no-brainers , but the fact that it is a smart film does not mean that it also isn't entertaining .  for all the interesting questions it asks , the film is still what it's being sold as-- " a journey to the heart of the universe . "  and what a fascinating , unforgettable journey it is . 
neg@ the best thing -- in fact , the only good thing -- i can say about dark city is that it made me want to go see l . a . confidential again .  or go rent body heat , to see william hurt do some real noir .  or even -- god help me -- palmetto .  alex proyas's new movie screams atmosphere .  i screamed , too , " get me out of this theater ! "  new line cinema spent millions of dollars creating the expressionistic film noir visuals and paying the actors , and doesn't have any way to get it back .  i paid $4 . 25 for a matinee screening and don't have any way to get my money back , either .  you'll hear a lot from other critics about the look and feel of this movie .  i will admit that the cinematographers and costume designers and set artists and cgi graphics geeks all worked hard to create a stunning , nightmarish future world where it's always a late night in 1948 , complete with rotary phones and automats and fedoras .  i've got news for you fellows -- i don't care how hard you worked , or how visually stunning this movie looks -- you wasted your time and mine , working on a movie without a plot , without a clear sense of direction of where it wanted to go , without a soul or a reason to care .  the movie starts out oh-so-promising .  john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) is lying in a bathtub in the sort of seedy hotel that in real life , would have been boarded up long ago .  there is a dead , mutilated prostitute in the other room -- a surprise , as he has lost his memory .  the phone rings : it's a sinister-sounding man , claiming to be his doctor , telling him to flee for his life .  all well and good , right ?  wrong .  apparently , someone decided that the audience was just a bit too dim to figure out the intricacies of the plot .   ( this is getting to be a popular assumption in hollywood . )  so , the actual beginning of the movie is not sewell running for his life , rather , it's a voice-over narration by the aforementioned doctor ( keifer sutherland ) explaining exactly what is going on and who is responsible .  it's as though sam the piano player had told us that rick and ilsa had been getting it on in paris in the first three minutes of casablanca .  no , wait , that's not fair to casablanca .  it's more like watching a new plotline at the first of the show -- or if you want to know how i really feel , having an off-screen narrator explain that gilligan won't be getting off the island in this episode .  >from here , the coherence of the plot goes down faster than ( insert monica lewinsky joke here ) .  the characters just wander around the city aimlessly and bump into each other for no apparent reason , and that's what moves the plot .  what we're left with is a string of unanswered questions that don't make any sense .  we're given aliens with unlimited omnipotent powers , yet they forget to use them at critical moments and get themselves killed .  we're given a hero who can " tune " into these same powers , yet he only uses them when it's convenient to the plot .  we're given a whole long list of loose ends that go nowhere  usually , critics will say that an actor playing an underwritten part " isn't given much to do . "  in this movie , no one is given anything to do .  sewell is given the impossible role of a man who doesn't remember anything , and plays it like . . .  um . . .  a man who doesn't remember anything .  the aliens are tall , pasty-faced , and bald , and wear long black cloaks and fedoras to remind us that they're evil -- and there's a child alien as well , straight out of an anne rice novel .  sutherland is saddled with a limp , a twitchy eye , and a breathy accent to remind us that he's in league with the aliens .  to its credit , dark city boasts two impressive bits of casting .  william hurt is perfectly cast as the world-weary inspector charged with catching the man who is murdering prostitutes all over the city .  jennifer connelly , playing sewell's love interest , is given two all-too-brief moments on screen as a lounge singer -- and turns in the sexiest performace this side of jessica rabbit .  but instead of the dogged policeman and the femme fatale given central treatment in the script ( the way they would be in any self-respecting noir movie ) they're almost tangiential to the plot , such as it is .  the problem with dark city is this : it's a bad science fiction movie pretending to be film noir .  the essence of film noir isn't , as proyas seems to beleive , breathy dialogue or snap-brim fedoras or tall , bald evil villains who would make peter lorre curl up in a corner .  dark city has not one bit of intrigue , moral ambiguity , suspense , or anything else that keeps us coming back to the noir classics .  dark city is like the intricately carved door that kate winslet floats on in titanic .  it's an exceptionlly well-made and intricately designed piece of flotsam , sailing around and around the middle of the ocean , going nowhere . 
pos@ synopsis : captain picard and the crew of the starship enterprise disobey federation orders and defend a peaceful community of 600 , the ba'ku , from the evil admiral dougherty and ru'afro .  the enterprise crew , in the meantime , experience the rejuvenating qualities of the ba'ku homeworld : lt . worf grows a pimple , data sings opera pieces , picard scores with a ba'ku chick , riker shaves while sharing a bubblebath with troi , and the enterprise women note their firmer breasts .  comments : " star trek : the next generation " was a hugely successful sequel tv series to " star trek , " a science fiction series which developed a devoted fan following in the 1970s .  even though it still enjoyed high ratings , " star trek : the next generation " ended production after seven years so that the cast could replace the original " star trek " 's cast in paramount's film franchise centering on the voyages of the starship enterprise .  star trek : insurrection is the ninth " star trek " movie and the third to focus on the " star trek : the next generation " crew .  star trek : insurrection qualifies as one of those movies star trek fans , such as myself , would rate somewhere between " okay " and " good . "  after star trek v : the final frontier , a nearly awful movie almost as bad as the repugnant " star trek : voyager " tv series , " star trek " fans could probably swallow anything paramount throws out in the trek film franchise .  i don't wish to spend this review comparing insurrection to the eight other trek movies .  most people reading this probably haven't followed " star trek " anyway , so a comparison would seem tedious at best .  let me , thus , make my comparisons briefly so that it's out of my system : star trek : insurrection is not as good as the previous installment , star trek : first contact ; star trek : insurrection's comic tone may be best compared to star trek iv : the voyage home ; star trek ii : the wrath of khan is still the best trek movie .  okay . let's move to the movie itself .  star trek : insurrection infuses a basic science fiction premise , humanity's exploration and colonization of space , with a lot of lowbrow humor and witty oneliners .  this combination works well more often than it fails , but when it does fail , the humor really seems cheesy .  much of this film appeals to trek fans' nostalgic fondness for the starship enterprise's crew .  audiences unfamiliar with trek lore may miss the significance of some plot points and may even become confused at times .  star trek : insurrection begins with scenes of the tranquil life on the ba'ku homeworld .  forget the actors and special effects , the beautiful setting of this movie , with its snowy mountaintops and verdant valleys , steals the show .  this tranquility , however , is broken by data , an android , who reveals to the ba'ku that they are being secretly monitored by the federation and their alien allies , the son'a .  it seems that this world is a veritable fountain of youth , sustaining its inhabitants indefinantly in a young , healthy state .  the enterprise crew , led by captain picard , investigates data's actions and uncovers a conspiracy between the son'a and an enterprise admiral to relocate the ba'ku and plunder the planet's youth-restoring properties .  sound pretty heavy ?  it is , though this plot , anything but unique and groundbreaking , is undermined by the film's constant barrage of humor .  when going after data , for instance , picard sings an opera piece with him ( this is supposed to be cute and humorous ) .  in a much more funny sequence , work grows a large pimple on the side of his nose as a result of his exposure to the ba'ku homeworld , a pimple which his crewmates , try as they might , cannot avoid looking at .  the acting in star trek : insurrection is , for the most part , pretty good .  since they've been playing these characters for years , those portraying the enterprise crew reassume their roles effortlessly enough .  the terrific actor patrick stewart plays captain jean-luc picard and delivers a moral speech , picard's trademark , with his usual aplomb .  brent spiner , another fine actor , plays the android data well enough again and provides the best moments of comic relief in the film ( though the old android-wishing-to-be-human motif will tire some trek fans familiar with the routine from the tv series ) .  the supporting cast who appear in this movie alone are also pretty good .  despite many other critics' negative opinions , f . murray abraham ( the winner of an academy award for his performance in amadeus ) plays the major villain ru'afro well enough .  ru'afro reminds me , somewhat , of the baron harkonnen in the 1984 film version of dune .  like the baron , ru'afro continuously has his skin looked after : it is stretched and stapled by servants .  in one particularly memorable scene , ru'afro becomes very agitated , and his facial skin splits open and bleeds .  ru'afro is no khan from star trek ii--the best trek villain ever--but he is much better than the forgettable dr . soran from star trek : generations .   ( okay , i promise , no more comparisons . )  donna murphy must also be noted as a ba'ku woman , anij , who picard falls in love with .  murphy is not a young woman with a supermodel body ; she is a mature woman with an attractive countenance .  this is the type of woman whom picard , for those who know the character well , would be enchanted with .  in fact , the chemistry between murphy and stewart works very well here .  a particular plot point involving anij's ability to slow time down , an ability which she shares with picard , becomes one of the most intriguing parts of the movie .  for as good as the actors and setting were , star trek : insurrection's special effects were surprisingly disappointing .  they proved adequate , sometimes barely , for a 1990s mainstream science fiction film , but they fell way short of the standard trek movie and paled in comparison to those seen in the trailer for star wars : the phantom menace ( a trailer which reportedly preceded many showings of insurrection ) .  the space battles involving the enterprise and sona ships , in particular , seemed trite and unsuspenseful , and the final confrontation between picard and ru'afro took place on a completely unconvincing interior of a satellite .  the new enterprise itself , only seen in this film and its predecessor , remains largely unexplored , though its exterior doesn't look quite right for a reason i cannot explain .  despite star trek : insurrection's frequent comic goofiness and occasional substandard special effects , i enjoyed the film .  it maintains roddenberry's largely optimistic view of the future and rejects the gritty violence of its predecessors , particularly star trek : first contact ( though , don't get me wrong , the dark tones of trek films like first contact can work very successfully ) .  i'd recommend insurrection as a matinee film for a saturday afternoon , especially for fans of trek or science fiction in general .  rated pg , i can't see this film being objectionable to the viewing audience , young or old . 
neg@ deserves recognition for : making this relatively youthful critic feel extremely old and crotchety20  capsule review : this is what feel-good family entertainment has morphed into in the 90's : an hour-and-a-half commercial , disguised as an unnecessary remake , in which the defining image is that of a grown man launching a volume of green protoplasmic goo out of his ass .   ( between this , rocketman , and george of the jungle , disney has recently eclipsed longtime champion troma as the studio most likely to include a fart joke in a film . )  as the absent-minded professor who invents the titular computer-generated goop , a listless robin williams manages the difficult task of making original lead fred macmurray seem sprightly .  the only thing that made this film borderline tolerable for me is my newly-founded but firm belief that writer/producer john hughes is going to spend his eternal afterlife being conked in the noggin by all of the different blunt instruments he's used for comedic effect in films like this and the odious home alone series .  take your kids to see boogie nights instead . 
pos@ ladies and gentlemen , 1997's independence day is here !  it's title : starship troopers .  and surprisingly , it is more entertaining than id4 .  i realize that i gave last year's sci-fi hit a 4 star rating , but i was under the spell of the powerful first hour .  after subsequent viewings , i feel that independence day really wasn't as great as it seemed--though i still give it a positive review .  starship troopers , on the other hand , has a mocking sense of humor , knowing perfectly well how ridiculous it may seem .  as a result , starship troopers is a more exciting , energetic , and lively science fiction film .  in fact , i probably could never get tired of watching this film .  starship troopers is very reminiscient of star wars , another kick-ass space opera which reinvented the sci-fi drama altogether .  while starship troopers is no star wars , it comes quite close , and the easiest assessment would be to call this film : " the 'star wars' of the 90s . "  am i being to generous to this film ?  perhaps , but when a science fiction film comes along that can mix humor and romance , effectively , into the warring races .  in essence , this is the science fiction equivolence of pulp fiction .  the easiest way to write a review of this film would be to compare it to other science fiction films , and i may have to .  starship troopers is not quite an original film persay , but director paul verhoeven gives the film a " kick-the-aliens'-asses " style .  id4 had this same style , except it was forced , most likely the cause of will smith having a major role .  this new " star wars " has a very simple , basic plot : mankind vs . an alien species .  the alien species in question here is the bugs , a seemingly advanced civilization of arachnid-type insects .  however , the underlying morals of starship troopers are fleshed out with deadly accuracy .  sometimes the morals are buried by the bloody violence and intense action scenes , but during quiet moments , we realize that starship troopers has something to tell us about our civilization .  more than likely , these morals will be overpowered and quickly forgotten by the time the movie ends .  and they should be .  i doubt verhoeven intended this film to be a thought-provoking film .  this is an " event " film , but surprisingly above average .  it is extremely refreshing to watch a sci-fi war film , and actually root for the human side ( something independence day never achieved ) .  starship troopers begins with a satirical portrayal of those strange " join the army " ads .  mixing a web-based interface , these summations of events are refreshingly original .  stating , " would you like to know more ? " ,  these short news bulletins give the film an immediate sense of humor , and we know we should not take it seriously .  however , we also witness the murder of several troopers in battle , in a gory , yet funny , way .  after witnessing the slaughter , the film jumps back one year , to setup what we just saw .  we are introduced to johnny rico ( casper van dien ) and carmen ibanez ( denise richards ) .  rico flirts with carmen by sending her messages over computer terminals in school classrooms .  however , carmen isn't as interested in rico as she is in becoming a pilot .  however , another classmate , dizzy flores ( dina meyer ) , has her eye on rico .  unfortunately , rico isn't interested in dizzy .  this setup is rather cliched , as is the result of the setup , but it still is fun to watch .  carmen signs up to become a starship trooper , and as a result , rico signs up .  and as a result , dizzy signs up .  everyone is assigned a certain position in the academy : carmen gets the pilot position she wanted , carl jenkins ( neil patrick harris ) , a psychic , gets a position in the training program , and rico is left in the lowest class of the starship troopers : the mobile infantry .  the main story follows rico through his trials and relationships .  in reality , i found myself watching a space version of " melrose place , " but with better special effects .  an hour into the film , the war begins .  a sense of tension grew in the audience i watched this film with .  the first hour may have been a funny ( sometimes unintentionally ) setup , but we grew to care for the flat characters , because no matter how hard i tried not to like the characters , their gorgeous looks won me over ( call me superficial , if you must ) .  following the training sessions , which had many dramas in themselves ( too many to mention here ) , the troopers are sent to war .  the bugs live on the planet klendathu , a planet which consists of dirt and rock , and pretty much nothing else .  many dramas occur during the war , until finally the troopers realize that their is something behind the bugs' attacks .  a sort of intelligence which masterminds the defense .  the troopers are ordered to locate the " brain " and capture it .  i hopefully left the plot as vague as possible , because starship troopers is not about plot .  it's about special effects and gory violence .  director verhoeven , most known for his nudie film showgirls and basic instinct , returns to his sci-fi days , which gave us good films like total recall .  verhoeven likes to push the envelope of the mpaa , but despite all the violence , the comic book feel gives the film a sense of falsehood .  starship troopers is extremely violent , with more gore than this year's event horizon .  the r rating is well deserved , and hopefully parents will not allow their 12 year old children to see it .  my guess is that verhoeven's target audience is the 18 to 25 male group .  the film has a testosterone level off the charts , with chiseled men and beautiful women .  despite these superficial elements , starship troopers also creates a world which made star wars so successful .  while watching the film , we never second guess the character's decisions because they seem perfectly clear .  thankfully , no hero is punching aliens in the face , which gives the flat characters some depth for which we can identify with .  the cast of starship troopers is quite annoying to begin with , but they soon grow on you .  casper van dien has the chiseled facial features and tan skin which will make most girls swoon .  to most guys , he will come across as artificial .  fortunately , van dien is the worst of the cast , despite how hard he tries to come off as a real character .  dina meyer does a much better job of fleshing out her character .  her dizzy is extremely likeable .  denise richards also does a good job , and her scenes are very well done .  jake busey , gary busey's son , gives a wonderfully funny performance , and provides one of the biggest laughs of the film .  neil patrick harris ( remember , he was doogie howser ) is a little wooden , and slightly out of place with the rest of the cast .  however , he does give a good performance .  michael ironside gives the best performance of the film as the teacher with one arm .  his performance rises above the rest .  perhaps it is because his character is the most developed , but i think it is just ironside's presence on screen .  unfortunately , no particular cast member gives a star-making performance , which is too bad because the material here could have made many of the cast members stars .  director verhoeven is the main star of the film .  his direction is fast and unrelentless .  he never slows down his pace , which makes for a wild ride .  writer edward neumeier adapted the screenplay from the book by robert heinlein .  the writing is usually very funny , and sometimes very corny .  the dialogue is smart but not too smart .  we aren't required to know everything , but some plot holes are left unanswered .  thankfully we are not intended to notice , and we really don't ( except for one which lingered in my mind for quite a while ) .  amazingly , with all the wars and romance going on , the screenplay manages to include some surprising governmental issues .  in fact , these governmental changes seem fairly plausible , and this adds another layer to the story .  the moral debate of the characters is quite surprising to find in a film of this genre , but what is even more surprising is the amount of humor included into all the carnage .  i haven't laughed this loud , even in some comedies .  oh , and the special effects are first rate .  starship troopers is rated r for graphic sci-fi violence and gore , and for some language and nudity .  believe me when i say this : don't take young kids to see this film .  it is extremely violent .  in fact , it is probably the most violent film out this year .  however , if you are old enough ( over 17 ) to see it , starship troopers is guaranteed to entertain .  it's been a long time since i have cheered for the heros , while also cheering for the bad guys .  and still , it is my dream to see a sci-fi film in which the alien race destroys mankind , and take over the world .  now that would be entertaining ! 
neg@ i went to blair witch project 2 : book of shadows with the highest of hopes .  the original film , released last summer , was genuinely scary and terrifying ; i hoped that this movie would live up to its predecessor .  unfortunately , my hopes were soon dashed .  as the movie opens , the audience is shown pseudo-documentary clips of burkittsville , maryland residents being interviewed about the sudden tourist influx to their town as a result of the original blair witch project movie .  it's a mostly humorous , self-aware poke at the media hype and hysteria surrounding the first film .  during this segment , we are introduced to the protagonist , a young man who sells blair witch-related memorabilia from his website .  the movie then cuts to a title that informs us that what we are about to see occurred one year previously .  we see the same young man that was selling blair witch paraphernalia , but now he is confined in a mental institution the sort of which one only finds in bad horror movies .  we see him having some sort of disgusting white goo unconvincingly forced down his nose while a cigarette-smoking doctor luridly leers above him .  we see him throwing himself wildly around a padded room ; we see him cowering naked in a shower stall as a fire hose is turned on him .  no explanation is provided for why he is in the mental institution ; in fact , these scenes are barely referred to again .  i had a sinking feeling during these opening scenes ; generally , a hospital scene that is set with poor lighting , filthy interiors , and evil doctors is a sure sign that you are in the throes of a truly horrible movie .  the movie cuts again , this time to the present .  the young man , whose name is jeffrey ( played by jeffrey donovan -- as in the first movie , the character names are identical to the actors' names , although this movie admits up front that it is fictional , so there's no reason for the practice this time around ) , is rounding up a group of people that he will be leading into the woods that weekend for the " blair witch hunt , " which is a promotional gimmick he came up with and sells on his website .  we meet tristen and steven , a young couple who are writing a book about the blair witch experience .  steven is a skeptic , believing the whole thing to be the result of mass hysteria .  tristen , on the other hand , believes that there may be some truth to the rumors of supernatural occurrence .  she is wan and soft-spoken ; she complains that the radio is playing too loudly .   ( she also complains that she feels nauseated ; i knew immediately that the character was pregnant , and my intuition was confirmed a few scenes later when kim psychomagically susses it out .  how did i know ?  because in bad movies , nauseated women are always pregnant . )  the fourth member of their party is erica , a wiccan with flowing hair and wide eyes who wants to prove that the blair witch was a good witch , not evil .  they pick up the fifth and final team member in a cemetery .  kim is dressed completely in black , has extreme goth-style makeup on , and occasionally displays seemingly psychic abilities , but otherwise seems to be the most intelligent and reasonable person out of the entire bunch .  presumably she wanted to be picked up in the cemetery just for dramatic effect ; it's never explained .  the party of five heads off into the woods as promised .  they reach the crumbling ruins of the foundation of rustin parr's house and set up camp , complete with extensive video equipment with which to record the night's events .  there is a brief encounter with a rival blair witch tour group who had planned to camp at that site as well , but after a few words are exchanged , the rival group huffs off and makes camp elsewhere .  the movie veers off at this point to spend many long , long minutes showing the drinking party that ensues after the sun goes down .  sexual innuendoes are tossed around , much hard liquor , beer , and pot is consumed , and nothing much else happens .  this would be a great point to get up and go to the bathroom if necessary .  the next day , the team wakes up and discovers that their camera equipment has been completely trashed , and that steven and tristen's manuscript paper is fluttering down from the sky in shreds , like snow .  the videotapes are missing , but thanks to a psychic intuition from kim , they discover the videotapes buried underneath the foundation of the house , " right where the original blair witch tapes were found ! "  ooh .  spooky .  the team goes back to jeffrey's house -- a creepy old civil war-era warehouse in the heart of the woods -- to regroup and review the tapes .  they soon discover that the tapes mysteriously skip five hours of the night .  wacky hijinks ensue .  tristen starts having weird dreams in which she is the blair witch , everybody starts finding these weird rune-like burn marks on their bodies , steven and erica have some highly disturbing mutual hallucinations , and everything pretty much goes to hell in a handbasket .  throughout the entire ordeal , jeffrey and the others continue to scrutinize the videotapes , which seem to have some kind of weird images on them at about the point that the time jumps ; eventually tristen wanders in , mutters something about " reverse , " and from this they somehow realize that they have to play the tapes backwards .  when they do this , they discover what really happened during the five lost hours .   ( one of the things they see on the videotape is footage of themselves burying the videotapes .  okay , if the videotapes were being buried , then how were they recording themselves . . . oh ,  nevermind . )  this movie was awful .  simply awful .  the characters are broadly-drawn caricatures that are never allowed any depth or development .  erica is the nature-loving wiccan .  tristen is the weak and sympathetic woman .  steven is the overbearing asshole .  kim is the antisocial goth girl .  old , tired cliches were used to illustrate these caricatures .  how do we know tristen is weak and sympathetic ?  because she's pregnant !  how do we know kim is an antisocial goth girl ?  because she wears a lot of eye makeup !  how do we know the local sheriff is a bad guy ?  because he has jagged teeth and talks like he's straight out of " deliverance " !  this is weak storytelling at its worst .  rather than taking the time to flesh out the characters and make them truly sympathetic , the writer chose to give each one a few stereotypical characteristics , in an attempt to use some cinematic shorthand and thereby skip straight to the action .  it didn't work .  on top of being poorly developed , most of the characters were either seriously unlikable or patently stupid .   ( " honey , you just had a miscarriage out in the woods and got medical attention at a hospital that looks like it belongs in a bad slasher movie .  let's get on a plane home . "   " no .  i am having these bizarre nightmares and seeing strange visions and i want to find out what's going on . "   " ok . " )  frankly , by the end of the movie , i was rooting for the witch .  i also felt that there was simply too much blood 'n' gore in this film .  the first movie worked by never showing us the horror .  the witch was a palpable presence in that movie , but we never saw it ; we never saw anything , in fact .  the horror was all off-screen , and thus our imaginations worked overtime to envision what it might possibly be .  this is the hallmark of a truly creepy and disturbing horror movie .  blair witch 2 dispensed with such niceties and went straight for the gross-out .  this was evident from the opening scenes of the mad doctors forcing white goo down jeffrey's throat , and continued throughout the film as the audience is treated to occasional confusing and disorienting footage of what appears to be a ritual massacre of some sort .  knives plunge into flesh , bloody fingers trail off into the darkness , and none of it is explained until the very end , when it was too late for me to care .  this movie didn't stop with showing us the gore , either ; it went for broke and showed us everything .  by the end of the movie , there are no questions remaining about the missing five hours .  it is all explained ; in fact , it is all shown on-screen in loving detail .  i confess to being someone who prefers horror movies in which you never see the monster , or see only brief glimpses , mere suggestions of what the monster is ; it is not because i find the monster so terrifying , but because i find the absence of the monster to be infinitely more terrifying .  i have seen interviews with the director in which he suggested that there is no " monster , " that all of the evil was perpetrated only by the human mind .  i found this to be a miserably poor explanation ; if it was in fact the director's intent , then he needs to have some words with the writer , because it was not made clear at all .   ( i know a lot of people who like to go to parties and get drunk and stoned out of their minds ; none of them has ever gone on a murderous rampage and then experienced mass hallucinations with a group of other people for the next week or so .  and if there was no witch , then what about the vanishing tree ?  the snowfall of manuscript paper ?  hm ? )  blair witch 2 : book of shadows was a horrible movie .  from the poorly-written characters to the implausible story to the plot inconsistencies to the gross-out shots , it was a bad effort through and through . 
pos@ tarzan chad'z = good ) 1999 , g , 90 minutes [1 hour , 30 minutes] [animated - adventure/drama] starring the voices of : tony goldwyn ( tarzan ) , minnie driver ( jane porter ) , lance henriksen ( kerchak ) , brian blessed ( clayton ) ; written by tab murphy , bob tzudiker , noni white ; produced by bonnie arnold ; directed by chris buck , kevin lima ; based on the story `tarzan of the apes' and characters created by edgar rice burroughs .  seen july 4 , 1999 at 7 : 15 p . m . at crossgates cinemas 18 ( guilderland , ny ) , theater #9 , by myself for free using my hoyts season pass .  [theater rating : * * * 1/2 : very good sound , picture and seats]  title : `tarzan' beautiful to look at , easy to follow .  review : disney continues its trend of producing animated summer blockbuster movies meant mostly for children but with enough wit and charm for adults to be interested and at least entertained by the story .  the basic premise is the same as every other `tarzan' story : a boy is raised in the african jungle by gorillas and becomes one himself never really understanding ( or even noticing ) that he's human and is a lot different from the animals he befriends .  the first third of the film shows how tarzan comes to be adopted by kala ( voiced by glen close ) , a female gorilla who lost her own child in a classic case of darwanism .  her mate , kerchak ( henriksen ) , is a mean , conservative leader of the pack of gorillas who make up tarzan's extended family .  he refuses to acknowledge tarzan ( voiced by alex d . linz during the childhood scenes ) as a son and often has to hold himself back from killing tarzan after he continually does dangerous , wild things that are the result of his own childish instincts .  i have a feeling children will quickly be able to identify with tarzan since all he really is is just a kid who wants to have fun and it's funny how the adults fail to comprehend this .  later , as the story transitions from tarzan as a child to a full-grown man ( voiced by goldwyn ) , he is encounter by a party of three humans from england : jane porter ( driver ) , a beautiful woman who is something of a zoologist and an artist , her father prof . archimedes q . porter ( voiced by nigel hawthorne ) who is also a scientist ; and their slick and cunning , yet barbaric safari bodyguard clayton ( blessed ) .  it's easy to tell where the story is going at all times but the screenplay doesn't seem like it was written hastily nor dumbed down for children's enjoyment .  sure there's a lot of cliche stuff here , like clayton's smugness and diabolical manipulation of tarzan and jane ; the goofy supporting characters ( voiced by rosie o'donnell [in full brooklyn accent ! ] and wayne knight - `hello newman ! ' ) .  there's also a lot of fun action such as tarzan's swinging through the jungle on vines and sliding down and around tree branches and trunks .  it's just like skateboarding really fast and doing all sorts of tricks ( those mcdonald's commercials really prove this point ) .  ultimately , you get exactly out of `tarzan' what you expect . . .  and i mean that as a compliment , so have high expectations .  pros : animation and sound are a feast for the senses , story is lighthearted , breezy and not dumbed-down , no stupid sing-along songs to get stuck in your head .  cons : surprisingly violent , should have been rated pg .  young children may not understand some of the more adult themes ( parents , be ready to have some heavy questions thrown your way ) .  running time is a bit short .  would you recommend this to friends ?  not to my friends , but to the movie-going public i would .  score : or with no 0 rating ) . 
neg@ don't get me wrong -- i tend to appreciate besson's naive , unashamedly romantic worldview , an artsy european sensibility gone thoroughly hollywood .  his 1994 leon is exciting and absurdly moving , thanks mainly to the interplay between jean reno and a young natalie portman , and 1997's the fifth element is a goofy paean to love , l-u-v , that's even more of a hoot on repeated viewings .  but his joan of arc is a mess , despite some stirring battle scenes and the mostly knockout presence of a close-cropped milla jovovich as the maiden herself .  jovovich , besson's own personal muse through the making of his last two films ( though they've since separated ) , is magnetic and energetic enough to play a credible joan ( as long as you believe joan was not just a warrior , but also a fabulous , supermodel-level babe ) .  and besson remains a servicable action film director , though not an especially facile one .  leading her army against the seemingly impenetrable fortresses of the english , joan's struggle against great odds is undeniably stirring , and besson helps you understand how the french could believe , fervently , that god is on her side .  besson's big mistake , i think , is trying to dramatize the interior life of his subject .  yes , joan had visions -- but i guarantee that whatever image a sympathetic audience conjures in its collective mind will be more compelling than the blue-eyed christ figure on display in besson's hallucinatory dream sequences .  the whole conceit turns into a disaster right about the time dustin hoffman ( billed as " the conscience " ) shows up , spouting platitudes and sending poor milla running around her cell , babbling like ally mcbeal .  that's kind of a shame , since she does quite well up to that point , charging into battle with a banshee wail that suggests the eruption of a sublimated bloodthirstiness .  that darkly attractive aspect of her character -- that she's as likely a charismatic madwoman as the vessel of the lord -- is more or less betrayed by the final reels , in which the conscience browbeats her over the killing she's overseen and joan starts to look like little more than a very confused young lady who's about to take a fall .  as the story winds down , with joan condemned to a horrible death by fire , besson is aiming for tragedy and psychological significance .  trouble is , he's chosen a lurid , often jokey tone for the balance of the picture -- including some blithe cgi bloodshed in the battle scenes -- and it's impossible to shake the feeling that this particular vision of the middle ages is , to a great extent , nothing more than a put-on .  this glib , pre-fab version of such a great story makes me all the more grateful for dreyer's the passion of joan of arc ( 1928 ) , a film whose dialogue is drawn from the actual transcripts of joan's trial , and which stands as one of the most harrowing experiences in all of cinema .  compared to that film , the messenger plays as a crime against history .  -------------------------------------------------------------- directed by luc besson written by besson and andrew birkin cinematography by thierry arbogast music by eric serra starring milla jovovich france/usa , 1999  theatrical aspect ratio : 2 . 35 : 1 -------------------------------------------------------------- 
pos@ on the basis of this film alone , i never would have predicted that , in two years , quentin tarantino would become the country's biggest hotshot director .  reservoir dogs has hints of the tarantino brilliance that emerged in pulp fiction , but is a much less substantive , more conventional crime story than the big pf .  here's what the two movies do have in common . . .  --scenes of intelligent , amusing dialogue with no relevance to the plot --a story that jumps back and forth in time rather than going in a logical , chronological sequence --graphic yet necessary violence --an engaging crime story --dialogue liberally spiced with swear words and racial/gender slurs --three of the same actors ( harvey keitel , tim roth and steve buscemi ) --a mexican standoff ending , although this one is considerably less optimistic than pf  reservoir dogs is an entire hour shorter than pulp fiction because it's only got one story to tell rather than three .  crime lord joe cabot ( veteran actor lawrence tierney ) has assembled five criminals who have never even met each other to pull a diamond store heist .  the five are instructed not to reveal their real names or personal details or anything the cops could use if one of them was captured and interrogated .  instead , they are all given code names off the color chart -- mr . white ( keitel ) , mr . pink ( buscemi ) , mr . orange ( roth ) , mr . blonde ( michael madsen ) , mr . brown ( tarantino ) and mr . peach ( tarantino's chin ) .  most of the movie's running time is spent with mr . white and pink waiting at a warehouse for the others to arrive .  mr . orange , meanwhile , is on the floor , dying from a gunshot wound .  the police had arrived at the scene of the crime way too soon , leading white to believe one of the five was an informant .  the story's background unfolds through a series of flashbacks , of the crime itself and the meetings between joe and the criminals prior to the crime .  eventually , blonde arrives with a police officer hostage , and what follows is a truly brutal , uncomfortable torture scene .  let's just say picasso would be inspired by what blonde does to the cop's ear .  a lot of the time , reservoir dogs seems like your typical gangster heist-gone-wrong movie , but there are a few sequences that are uniquely tarantino .  the opening scene in the coffee shop starts the movie off on a high note the rest of it doesn't live up to , as the criminals plus joe have a conversation on , among other things , tipping philosophies and their interpretations of madonna's " like a virgin . "  another scene involves roth's lengthy manufactured story about running into a group of cops and a police dog in a bus station bathroom while carrying a giant bag of marijuana .  neither of these have much plot relevance but are given ample time to develop , like the captain koons gold watch speech in pulp fiction , only here these sequences are more enjoyable than the rest of the movie .  reservoir dogs is good but it's no pulp fiction . 
neg@ like a good action film should , " metro " has action that keeps you involved .  some action films have action sequences that are so conventional , our attention is detracted and diverted by other thoughts .   " the ghost in the darkness , " which opened a few months ago , is a film that s action was so bland and uninvolving , it not only invited my thoughts to divert me , it nearly put me asleep .  but " metro " is one of the best action films in a while .  it is hip , sharp , nifty , and has nice little pieces of suspense and comedy .  eddie murphy was in bad shape for a while .  and this invites me to mention last year s " the nutty professor , " which was his blessed revival back to the position at which he used to be .   " metro " happens to be a lot better than any film in the " beverly hills cop " series .  that is because " metro " takes itself seriously , but doesn t prevent itself from having a little fun .  eddie murphy is at his best in the roles of responsible , and controlled people .  the " beverly hills cop " movies all featured eddie as a reckless , wild cop , always crossing the line by just an inch .  in " metro " he plays a hostage negotiator , so negotiation is his job , not his hobby or his preferred way out of trouble .  his character in " metro " takes himself seriously .  eddie murphy s mischievous trademark grin is hardly anywhere to be found in " metro , " and perhaps it is quite better off that way .  murphy plays scott roper , and as i previously mentioned , he is a san francisco hostage negotiator .  in the first tense situation in the film , we are introduced to roper s kind of work , as he tries to calm down a confused , unkempt young criminal who has taken captive the entire capacity of the san francisco bank he is holding up .  murphy handles the scene seriously , without his usual happy-go-lucky , misfit humor .  the film develops when its villain is established , and the villain here is the beguiling michael korda , a jewel thief , and murderer who likes to let cops know of his hostage fatalities by giving them the ear of the victim .   " metro " takes different twists and slight turns , and there is one great , virtuoso chase scene , involving the a cable car .  cars flip .  cars crash .  cars turn over .  and it is done so good in this film , i was reminded of " speed , " and the speeding bus that couldn t go under fifty mile per hour for very significant reasons .  there are also some other good scenes in " metro " that a lot of films would rather choose not to have .  scenes like the one with roper and his new partner are at the horse track roper is a gambler who knows all the tricks and roper teaches his partner a few little methods of betting and winning .  of course , the writers tried to disguise the scene as being insignificant by having roper draw parallels between hostage negotiation and gambling .  the scenes between roper and his girlfriend are nice , too .  those are the scenes that make up " metro , " which is mainly about eddie murphy s maturing as a personality .  the actor that i most enjoyed seeing in " metro " was michael rapaport , who plays roper s new partner , a lip-reading , book-skimming genius , and a master of observation .  it was not the actor s presence that pleased me as much as the role he was cast in the role of a proclaimed genius .  rapaport is an actor who i usually see in the role of the dimwit the really , really dopey dimwit .  i hardly recognized him in " metro , " and it was quite a joy to be able to see him in a role like this i feel that i respect him more .  there are two main types of villains in movies like this : the ones that are part of the story , and the ones that are devices .  the villain in " metro " is no more than a device , but he is a darn good villain nonetheless .  he is played by michael wincott , whose voice is pushed out in a abraded rasp , as if he smokes a cigarette between every take .  wincott makes his villain , korda , as mean as could be , the classic type of villain who would push an old lady down a flight of stairs just for kicks , like richard widmark in " kiss of death . "  and , in addition , wincott s physical appearance and mannerisms , in the film , actually reminded my of an arrogant friend i use to have , who is no longer on my good list .  i liked " metro , " and i do not think would have worked with any other actor but eddie murphy .  his past roles were the great ones but they were also a precursor to the maturing that would later take place , possibly from murphy s growing as a person , now having a family .   " metro " is a no-nonsense movie .  it works as a buddy movie , which it does not overplay .  it works as a dry comedy , which it does not overplay .  it works as a suspense film , which it does not overplay .  and it works as an action film , where it does have a tendency to occasionally go all-out .  but who cares ?  it still remains serious , and it does not overdo itself .  oh , and there were plenty of explosions in " metro , " as well .  how nice it was of the filmmakers to give us those .  if there is one major objection i had to " metro " , it was the length , an area where a lot of action films seem to wear out their welcomes .   " metro " is a film that lasted a little too long , but it was still entertaining , and it gave me something to do while i waited for it to end .  paul haynes " > 
pos@ not since attending an ingmar bergman retrospective a few years ago have i seen a film as uncompromising in its portrayal of emotional truth as secrets & lies .  like bergman , director mike leigh is interested in probing his characters' inner depths through hypernaturally blunt confrontations .  also like bergman , leigh engages in frequent closeups of his characters' ravished and wracked faces .  and the prominent mournfulness of a cello on the soundtrack recalls bergman's own use of a bach cello suite in an earlier film .  all that is missing is a discussion of god .  which is not to say that secrets & lies is nothing more than an homage to the swedish master .  in fact , it is quite possible leigh had no such intentions in mind .  nonetheless , what we get is so far removed from the average moviegoing experience -- even from the reason we go to the movies in the first place -- that it takes some effort to adjust to the film's rhythms .  once the adjustment is made , however , there are great rewards .  one such is the chance to see life on the screen as it really is .  though leigh may have adopted some of bergman's stylistic touches , most obviously in an early scene of terse cross-cutting during a married couple's strained conversation , as well as in that somewhat obtrusive score , the overall feeling of the film is that it eschews any " style " at all .  whereas bergman uses artifice as a tool to expose reality , leigh makes the camera a mere observer , almost as in a pbs documentary .  the effect of this is to focus all of your attention on the actors .  it is a tribute to everyone involved that , despite such scrutiny , only infrequently are we aware that anyone * is * acting .  much has been made of brenda blethyn's performance , and rightly so , but it is only when you remind yourself that you are watching a fiction that you realize how good she is .  there are a few missteps .  for one , except for one scene ( tragicomic , as it happens ) , there is scant humor in the film .  this leads to a certain monotonous tone throughout .  and occasionally ( as with bergman ) the bluntness of the situations can seem forced .  for all that , this longish film manages to keep hold of your attention .  it is unfortunate that the audience for secrets & lies will most likely be limited to an intellectual elite , for there is nothing inherently intellectual about this film .  in fact , it might easily resonate more strongly for millions of working class filmgoers who will likely never see it .  there is even a sweet but significant irony in the film's unspoken take on race relations , something an american audience at least would do well to observe .  nonetheless , secrets & lies is not for the faint of heart .  though there is nothing physically horrific to make one squeamish , the exploration of common human frailty can be so raw and unsparing that it is tempting to turn from the screen .  needless to say , it is also very depressing at times .  but for many of us , of course , so is life .  and though the film is too honest to tack on a phony happy ending , that same honesty allows it to admit that things can also get better . 
neg@ surrounded by hype , high hopes , and the promise of an over-the-top performance by clueless's brittany murphy , don't say a word looked full of promise .  hell , when i hear that " i'll never tell " whisper on the tv commercial , goose bumps run up my spine .  alas , word is filled with little but disappointment , a kooky mix of girl , interrupted and ransom , with michael douglas and company collecting a paycheck to plod through a vapid and dull kidnapping thriller .  douglas stars as nathan conrad , renowned new york psychologist , devoted father of jessie conrad ( skye mccole bartusiak ) , and loving husband to aggie conrad ( famke janssen ) .  after a gang of jewel thieves , headed by sean bean's koster , kidnaps his daughter , nathan is forced to extract from his new patient , the catatonic and violent elisabeth burrows ( murphy ) , the location of some hidden bank job booty that her father hid from the koster gang a decade ago .  but with hard-nosed detective sandra cassidy ( jennifer esposito , doing her best j . lo impression ) tracking down koster and his gang of hoodlums , the stakes are raised as nathan races against the clock to crack the mystery of elisabeth's head in order to get the goods inside .  the catch - nathan only has until five o'clock to solve the puzzle !  whoa , the suspense is almost too much .  don't say a word loses the audience inside of 15 minutes .  murphy looks and acts like linda blair from the exorcist during the first part of the movie , then turns around and reprises like her role from girl , interrupted .  and the only real " crazy " to be found in the film is director gary fleder's ( things to do in denver when you're dead ) staggering use of flashback sequences .  oliver platt , famke janssen , and even sean bean are decent actors , but the stuff they are given here -- such as a bedridden wife fighting off the token black guy with her crutch -- is insulting and demeaning .  additionally , the use of the surveillance cameras and laptops to track nathan's every move is downright unbelievable .  how do ex-cons fresh out of the big house afford all this equipment ?  despite its flaws , don't say a word is surprisingly some of the best mainstream film you'll find this month -- and audiences will lap it up .  americans love lukewarm , half-baked thrillers starring big names and accompanied by cheap thrills .  someone get me my lithium ! 
pos@ there was a huge crowd - so many over 100 people could not be admitted - at a premiere screening of " the nephew " ( first screening with a major general audience admittance ) .  this was a movie premiere at the santa barbara international film festival .  pierce brosnan ( 007 ) , produced his first movie with beau st . clair .  it was a constantly mind-moving and personal movie with lovely scenes of ireland .  chad ( hill harper , beloved ) is a cute 17 year old mixed race ( african american and irish ) nephew , who's irish mother died .  he comes " back to ireland " , living with the curmudgeon uncle , tony egan ( donal mccann ) .  he meets pierce brosnan's character , mr . o'brady ( or just brady ) , because he falls in love with the beautiful daughter .  there are many scenes ( ah , character scenes ) to laugh at , others pull some tears .  the three mentioned above were at the premiere in the flesh , with the director eugene brady .  after the movie they took questions .  the movie was very good , it not fantastic .  the nephew has not been " picked up " in north america but has been in the rest of the world .  the nephew is generation secrecy of a " titanic " proportion .  let's hope the rest of america will be able to see the nephew .  contact given in the program guide : " print source : irish dream source , inc . , tel : ( 310 ) 449-3411 " 
neg@ the scene at the end of 1989's `dead poets society , ' when robin williams' english students stand up on their desk and say , `captain , my captain , ' gets me every time .  unfortunately , the court room scene near the end of robin's newest film , `patch adams , ' doesn't have anywhere near the same impact .  from the surface `patch adams' looks very promising .  it's a story about a not so young man , patch adams ( robin williams ) , who finds meaning in his life through helping sick people .  when the film opens , we find patch , depressed and suicidal , checking himself into a mental hospital .  in a few scenes , strongly reminiscent of `one flew over the cuckoo's nest , ' he ends up helping the patients through their problems ; and it's here that he finds how much he loves working with people .  so he checks himself out of the hospital , and heads straight to medical school .  right from the start , patch uses comedy to help make the patient more comfortable .  he continuously breaks medical tradition and makes the dean of the school angry .  shortly after joining medical school , he meets and falls in love with carin ( monica potter ) .  they , along with patch's dork friend , truman ( daniel london ) , start a medical clinic for uninsured people .  once the dean catches wind of the clinic , he tells patch he can't graduate and kicks him out of school .  patch , like what any true american would do , takes the school to court .  it's here where the not so climatic court room battle takes place , over whether or not patch can become a real doctor .  i have never seen a movie with some potential just completely blow it .  it seems more like a series of short sketches , rather than a full-length movie .  considering it runs almost two hours , much too long for such a light film , it could have flowed much smoother .  not to mention the fact of how serious the film takes itself , and manages to cover all the cliches of bad melodrama .  robin williams saves the film from being abysmal with several comic scenes that elevate the movie to entertaining and worthwhile levels .  but those moments are rare and in the end `patch adams' is barely average . 
pos@ unzipped is a cinematic portrait of isaac mizrahi , an artist whose palette is fabric .  ostensibly , the film is a documentary , but use of that term requires stretching its meaning .  many scenes appear staged , and a great deal of cutting-and-pasting has been done in the editing room .  the cinema verite effect is a conceit -- genuine spontaneity is at a premium , and everyone is aware of and playing to the camera ( especially would-be actresses like cindy crawford ) .  director douglas keeve ( who was mizrahi's lover at the time ) freely admits that he " couldn't care less about the truth " but was more interested in capturing " the spirit and love in isaac and in fashion . "  despite violating nearly every rule of " legitimate " documentary film making , however , unzipped is a remarkably enjoyable piece of entertainment .  while it sheds only a little light on the behind-the-scenes world of the fashion industry , it presents a fascinating , if incomplete , picture of designer mizrahi .  this man is the perfect subject for this kind of study -- he's funny , energetic , and eminently quotable .  he has unusual views on just about everything , from fashion ( " it's about women not wanting to look like cows " ) to mary tyler moore ( " between her and jackie kennedy , they shaped this country " ) to style ( " it's almost impossible to have style nowadays without the right dogs " ) .  unzipped also gives a glimpse into the creative process by which mizrahi turns an idea into a dress .  it's almost certainly different that anyone would imagine .  the designer draws on a variety of sources for his look , including nanook of the north and old bette davis movies , then enlists the aid of a ouija board to help form the collection .  in particular , unzipped traces mizrahi's development of his fall 1994 line from its inception in the spring to the final fashion show , which highlights a number of prominent models , including cindy crawford , naomi campbell , kate bush , and linda evangelista .  on the technical side , a number of interesting choices were made in filming unzipped .  a variety of film stocks were used : super 8 , 16 mm black-and-white , and 35 mm color .  there is a purpose to this beyond simple artiness -- the stock often serves as an emotional key to the movie , and , during the climactic fashion show , color is used to show the audience's perspective , while black-and-white is for the behind-the- scenes sequences .  nevertheless , some viewers will be put off by this treatment .  while unzipped isn't an expose on the fashion industry per se , keeve has enough clips of petulant models to make the viewer realize how tame robert altman was with ready to wear .  overall , however , this movie is far more about mizrahi than anything else , and only when viewed from that perspective does unzipped succeed .  when the designer declares that " everything is frustrating except designing clothes -- that's beautiful and liberating , " it fits perfectly with the image of him that unzipped has constructed . 
neg@ as with any gen-x mtv movie ( like last year's dead man on campus ) , the movie is marketed for a primarily male audience as indicated by its main selling points : sex and football .  those two items , wrapped in a guilty-pleasure package , are sure to snare a sizeable box office chunk initially , but sales will decline for two reasons .  first , the football sequences are nothing new , nor can they be ; the sports genre isn't mainstream and it's been retread to death .  second , the sex is just bad .  despite the appearance of a whipped cream bikini or the all-night strip-club party , there's nothing even remotely tantalizing .  the acting is mostly mediocre , not including the fantastic jon voight .  cultivating his usual sliminess , voight gives an unexpectedly standout performance as west canaan coyotes head coach bud kilmer .  kilmer is the driving force behind the coyotes' twenty-two conference championships and two state titles in thirty years ; this year he plans to make it twenty-three .  unfortunately , when his star quarterback , lance harbor ( paul walker ) , goes down for the count , he's got to rely on the unreliable abilities of backup john moxon ( james van der beek ) .  moxon leads the team through its last four games , and then must cope with his newfound stardom , the effect it has on his relationship with girlfriend julie ( amy smart ) , and other temptations that abound in football-crazy west canaan .  most regions of the country are not nearly as football-crazy as texas , and so the atmosphere is likely to be lost on most .  similarly , the set design is wrong for a high school setting : the teams are decked out with sparkling uniforms , radio headsets ( which never seem to work , however , and instead require coaches to signal plays manually ) , and even a giant bronze statue of coach kilmer .  these elements ( as well as the heavy drinking and carousing ) might be more appropriate on a college campus -- but mtv's core audience is the high school demographic .  this focus is further emphasized by the casting : james van der beek , of tv's " dawson's creek , " is an understandable choice for the reluctant hero , although he never manages to do anything with the role .  other stars are similarly young and unmemorable .  there's not much that goes right about varsity blues , and there's not much to like about it , either .  everything herein has already been done , and if it hasn't , the movie manages to botch it one way or another .  this is certainly missable . 
pos@ corey yuen's latest film , " hero " is notable on two fronts .  first this is the film to bring back the shaw brothers studio back to the forefront of film production .  secondly , the film is the re-discovery of yuen biao .  the film opens around the end of the qin dynasty , when many immigrants were making their way to shanghai .  poverty and crime rule most of china .  a young man , ma wing jing and his brother enter the fabled city and become laborers at the pier .  tam see is the most powerful gangster in town , having control of the center of the city and having an alliance with the british army .  wing jing and see become friends during a confrontation .  their friendship grows as both men start to realize their dreams , wing jing's to be a powerful and wealthy man , and see to settle down with a woman he can truly love .  wing jing meets the singer at the club ( jessica hester ) and falls in love with her , not realizing that she is the star attraction .  after stealing her picture from a display , wing jing and his brother plot to impress her .  first they rob two foreigner's of their money and cloths , and set up a midnight rendezvous .  unfortunately , wing jing has run afoul of a rival gangster , yeung seung who has bribed the police in an effort to gain control of see's night club .  the two bothers are arrested and held until they manage to escape just before dawn .  jessica , having waited outside in the cold with her manager all night , gives up and returns home .  see decides to retire , he gives the night club to wing jing , as repayment for saving his life during an attempted murder .  see arranges the trade and ask his lover ( valerie chow ) to take care of wing jing .  unfortunately , she has sided with yeung seung .  the performances in the film are all top notch , with fine turns by takeshi kaneshiro as ma wing jing and jessica hester and valerie chow .  the comic turn by yuen wah , previously known as the mad vietnamese in samo hung's " eastern condors " , is a marvelous surprise .  his gift for comedy is marvelously understated and hilarious .  the stand-out is by yuen biao who returns to the screen after a string of disappointments , with a stellar performance .  his tam see is a triad boss who knows that his time is coming to an end but still has the cunning and craft to uphold his pride .  his gangster is almost non-violent , in that he only retaliates , never instigates violence .  but when the time comes to fight , yuen biao has never looked better .  corey yuen directs the film with a maturity and a sense of pacing that has been lacking in hong kong movies as of late .  the lighting , cinematography and staging of the film are beautiful to watch .  the action scenes do not disappoint either .  this is the most aggressive and inventive martial art choreography i've seen in some time , actually surpassing jackie chan's work in both 'rumble in the bronx' and 'first strike' .  the special effects team deserves praise for a fantastic job of making the impossible look possible .  an early fight between takeshi kaneshiro and yuen biao on the back of a horse is to be seen to be believed .  also noteworthy is the score for the film , done in a marvelously lush orchestral style , not representative of most hong kong fare .  i would dare to say it ranks as high as the scores for both " titanic " and " rosewood " as best of the year .  all in all , " hero " marks a grand return to filmmaking for shaw brothers .  this is the film that gives us faith that hong kong cinema is alive and flourishing . 
neg@  " have you ever heard the one about a movie so bad that it made a guy run out of the theatre screaming ? "  obviously the producers at columbia tristar did not think that we suffered enough from the first installment , and so to finish us utterly , they have now released " urban legends : final cut " .  this is another " scream " -like feature , consisting merely from the recycled materials of rip-offs from the most pointless movies of all time .  amy ( jennifer morrison ) is a film student who is attending a film school filled with uninspired film students who do not have a clue about what to do .  but just as she reaches the halfway mark of her final semester at prestigious university's film program -- where each year's best thesis production takes the coveted hitchcock prize , a virtual one-way ticket to hollywood success -- she has a chance encounter with campus security guard reese ( loretta devine ) , whose tale of a series of murders based on urban legends at another university inspires amy to try her hand at a fictional thriller organized along similar lines .  soon enough , fake -- and real -- blood starts to flow , and amy is being chased around by scary killer , while her cast and crew get slain , one by one .  is the culprit the original urban legends murderer , just some random psycho , !  a member of the faculty , one of her competitors for the hitchcock , or is there something even more stupid going on ?  this is another one of those tiring , pointless teen slasher flicks : neither scary , funny , or interesting .  it simply lacks the ability and the story to entertain .  the body counts and screams continue to grow , as the weak level of intelligence sinks rapidly .  in fact watching films like that after having watched " scary movie " is impossible keeping a serious face .  several times i tried to prevent myself from laughing , without succeeding .  and then i realized that practically the whole theatre was laughing .  it's the same thing that has been told and told and told over and over again as if it was the revelation of the century .  how many times must we tolerate the same clich ? s that have haunted the slasher genre since its birth ?  it has been so many films about masked killers that most of us have developed an allergy for them .  they are the most stupid , meaningless , predictable and soulless films in existence .  however , director john ottman manages to make " urban legends : final cut " into one of the worst achievements of this godforsaken genre .  what was done with a sense of redemption for past failures and irony in " scream " , ottman takes seriously .  for that reason alone , it is worth a look , just to realize how bad a movie can be .  it's tough to find comparisons for such an achievement , and we have to dig in ancient history to find a movie that would match its intellect .  even movies like " lost in space " and " mission to mars " seem spectacular in its shadow .  we have not seen such waste of t !  ime and resources since " showgirls " ( 1995 ) .  no matter how hard i tried to find positive elements in this so called production , i came up with nothing , except the way the killer was dressed .  here i feel that i have to compliment the costume designers trysha bakker and marie-sylvie deveu , that have wisely replaced the well known scream-mask with a very elegant fencing mask .  jennifer morrison ( " stir of echoes " ) is all right , and the other actors' best achievement is keeping a straight face when pronouncing the words from the script .  in fact the only thing that is terrifying about this film ( with the exception of its screenplay ) is its portray of film schools .  if these graduates will be the directors of the future , then hollywood's golden days are over .  rumors are already spreading through the internet that columbia tristar is already developing a third installment .  let's just hope and pray that it's just an urban legend . 
pos@ after hearing reviews for woody allen's upteenth movie in history , " celebrity , " range from terribly boring to just so-so , my heart lept when the opening images of the film closely resembled that of " manhattan , " my personal favorite from my personal favorite director of all time .  woody allen's films almost never rely on visual flair over textual flair , so when one of his films closely resembles the one time that these two entities fit hand-in-hand ( " manhattan " really is one of the best-looking films i've ever seen , beautiful black and white photography of the city's best areas , etc . ) , a fan can't help but feel visibly moved .  the film opens up , with the usual credits with plain white font over black backgrounds , and an old ironic standard playing on the soundtrack , but then the screen fills with a gorgeous dull gray sky , with the word " help " being spelled with an airplane .  beethoven's 5th blasts on the soundtrack .  the city seems to stop to take notice of this moment , and it's all rather lovely to look at .  and then we cut to a film crew , shooting this as the film's hilariously banal key moment in the film , where the lead actress in the film ( melanie griffith , looking as buxom and beautiful as ever ) has to realize something's wrong with her life or whatever .  it's a terribly stale scene for a woody allen film , with the great opening shots or without , and my heart sank and i soon got used to the fact that once again , a new film of his was not going to be as great as his past works ( though , for the record , last year's " deconstructing harry " came awfully close ) .  what the hell has happened to him ?  the man who once could be relied on for neurotic freshness in cinema has not become less funny , but his films have become less insightful and more like he tossed them together out of unfinished ideas .   " bullets over broadway , " though wonderful , relies on irony to pull a farce that just never totally takes off .   " mighty aphrodite " is more full of great moments and lines than a really great story .   " everyone says i love you " was more of a great idea than a great film .  even " deconstructing harry " is admittingly cheap in a way , even if it does top as one of his most truly hilarious films .  if anything , the reception of " celebrity " by everyone should tip allen off to the fact that this time , it's not the audience and critics who are wrong about how wonderful his film is : it's him .   " celebrity " is , yes , a good film , but it's only marginally satisfying as a woody allen film .  instead of creating the great woody allen world , he's created a world out of a subject he knows only a bit about .  and he's fashioned a film that is based almost entirely on his uninformed philosophy of celebrities , so that it plays like a series of skits with minor connections .  it's like " la dolce vita " without the accuracy , the right amount of wit , and the correct personal crisis .  woody , becoming more insecure in his old age , choses to drop the woody allen character in on the world of celebrities , and then hang him and all his flaws up for scrutiny , and does this by casting not himself but brit actor kenneth branagh in the lead .  much has been said about his performance - dead on but irritating , makes one yearn for the real thing , blah blah blah - but to anyone who actually knows the woody allen character knows that branagh's performance , though featuring some of the same mannerisms ( stuttering , whining , lots o' hand gestures ) , is hardly a warts-and-all impersonation .  branagh brings along with him little of the woody allen charm , which actually allows for his character's flaws to be more apparent .  woody's a flawed guy , and we know it , but we love him anyway , because he's really funny and really witty and really intelligent .  branagh's allen is a bit more flat-out bad , but with the same charm so that , yes , we like him , but we're still not sure if he's really a good person or not .  his character , lee simon , is first seen on the set of the aforementioned movie , hits on extra actress winona ryder , then goes off to interview griffith , who takes him to her childhood home where he makes a pass at her , and she denies him . . . sorta .  we then learn , through flashbacks , that lee has been sucked into trying to be a celebrity thanks to a mid-life crisis and an appearance at his high school reunion .  he has since quit his job as a travel journalist and become a gossip journalist of sorts , covering movie sets and places where celebrities congregate , so that he can meet them , and maybe sell his script ( a bank robbery movie " but with a deep personal crisis " ) .  as such , he has divorced his wife of several years ( allen regular judy davis ) , and continues on a quest for sexual happiness , boucing from girlfriend to girlfriend and fling to fling over the course of the film .  after griffith comes his escapades with a model ( charlize theron ) who is " polymorphously perverse " ( glad to see allen is using new jokes , ha ha ) , who takes him for a wild ride not different from that of the anita ekberg segment of " la dolce vita . "  following are his safe relationship with smart working woman famke janssen , a relationship that almost assures him success , and his continued escapades with ryder , whom he fancies most of all .  his story is juxtaposed with that of davis , who flips out , but stumbles onto happiness when she runs into a handsome , friendly tv exec ( joe mantegna ) who lands her a job that furthers her career to national status .  while lee is fumbling about , selfishly trying to ensure his own happiness , davis becomes happy ( " i've become the kind of woman i've always hated . . . and  i'm loving it . " )  without doing a thing .  the result is a film of highs and mediums .  the mediums are what take up most of the film , with sitations and scenes which don't exactly work but you can't help but pat allen on the back for trying .  but other places are really great scenes .  the opening .  the sequence with theron , which is so good that i wished it hadn't ended .  a banana scene with bebe neuwirth ( droll as ever ) .  and , perhaps the best sequence : a romp with hot-as-hell teen idol , brandon darrow , played by none other than leo dicaprio , who is so un-dicaprio-esque that if any of this fans could sit through this film , they'd never look at him the same way .  he ignites the screen with intensity , and spares nothing in showing his character as narcissistically tyrannical , and totally heartbreaking for lee , who comes to him to talk about his script that he has read , and finds himself on a wild all-day ride with him .  they go to atlantic city to watch a fight , they gamble , and they wind up in his hotel room , where darrow gets it on with his flame ( gretchen mol ) and he lends him one of the leftover groupies .  allen's writing in these scenes are so good that just for them , i'd almost recommend the film .  almost .  but what i really liked about this film is despite the fact that it's a mess , despite the fact that what this film really needs is a good old fashioned rewrite by allen himself , it's still a smart and insightful film .  though some of the jokes are either stale or misplaced ( some seem too cartoonish , even for this environment ) , allen still manages to get across that this film is not exactly about celebrities , as it may seem to be ( if it were , it'd be extremely out-of-touch ) , but about those who want to be celebrities , and how they equate celebrity-hood with happiness .  we never get close enough to the actual celebrities to see if they're really happy ( they may appear to be on the surface . . . ) , but we do get close enough to lee and davis' character .  lee is obsessed with the phenomenon , while davis takes is at arm's length , and never gets too involved in what it is , and soon becomes one herself .  besides , it's witty , and it does have the one thing that no other film has but allen's : that great woody allen feel .  it may be not exactly fresh and lively or totally brilliant in its depiction of its subject , and yes , as a part of woody allen's oeuvre , it's merely a blip ( no " annie hall " but it's no " shadows and fog " either ) , but it goes to prove that no one can make a film like him , and only he and maybe godard could possibly take a totally horrible metaphor , like the one in the beginning , and make it work not once but twice . 
neg@ seen december 2 , 1997 at 6 : 50 p . m . at the glenwood movieplex cinemas ( oneida , ny ) , theater #3 , by myself for free ( free pass ) .  [theater rating : * * * : good seats , sound , and picture]  there are many philosophies as to why we are so fascinated with cartoons .  they provide a method of total escapism in which anything will work within their context , from the outrageous slapstick of looney tunes to the intensity of japanimation .  watching " flubber " really clinched this idea for me , because it's just a live action cartoon that presents itself as a regular comedy .  it proves how painfully unfunny all those gags and slapstick would be in reality , and how important it is to actually have a story .  the film wastes no time in establishing its lighthearted , cartoony atmosphere .  we meet medfield college chemistry professor phillip brainard ( williams ) , the typical , supposedly likable mad scientist .  within the first 10 minutes we get at least a half dozen jokes about how forgetful he is .  phillip's memory loss seems less like a cartoony gag and more like a real case of alzhiemer's disease - isn't this rather lowbrow comedy ?  he starts teaching chemistry after walking in on a nude figure drawing class ( an inappropriate joke for a kids' movie if i ever saw one ) .  we learn he has stood his up fiancee , sara ( harden ) , twice at the altar simply because he's forgotten .  sara claims to love him , but says if he forgets the wedding again she'll stop loving him ( a sign of childish attitude the film denies it has ) .  but even cartoons must have conflicts to resolve , and it's no surprise the major conflicts here are related .  christopher mcdonald does and even worse version of his usual villain shtick as wilson croft , a scientist who not only wants to steal phillip's ideas , but his woman too .  what's worse is that sara actually seems interested in him !  wilson works for a rival college that wants to buy out medfield , which is going broke , unless phillip can invent something to save the day .  one of the first rules of filmmaking is to make sure the title has something to do with the film .  the flubber is played for gags after it is introduced , but is all but forgotten about thereafter .  it's obvious phillip is going to accidentally invent flubber , a flying rubber compound that yields tremendous energy , and the promotions make the flubber look realistic and funny .  unfortunately , the flubber , like all the special effects in this film , looks very fake and unconvincing .  flubber also seems to have intelligence and a personality , and by the time it performs a song and dance routine , you give up wondering how life could spontaneously come to an inanimate object .  most of the film wanders aimlessly as it relies on the flubber to make for the comedy ( since phillip's absent-mindedness is forgotten about ) and somehow push the story along .  but it's clear how weak this premise is from the get-go and the film just gets worse .  all the jokes involve people getting hit by fast-moving , flubber-powered objects including : bowling balls ; flying cars that don't fly well ; and a basketball team capable of jumping 100 feet into the air .  it's all presented with complete logic , and no one believes flubber exists even when they see it with their own eyes .  during the basketball scene , the coach for the rival team actually says , " i think they might be cheating , " to which the referee replies , " there's no rules about jumping too high . "   " predictable " doesn't begin to describe the motions the film goes through , especially after the halfway point .  and it's not how terribly contrived the plot is , it's the way it's broken down scene-by-scene , with absolutely no transition .  not only that , but all the actors here , especially williams , seem bored to tears .  i'd say 80 percent of all the scenes were shot with a bluescreen , so it's almost forgivable when you realize they're talking to nothing and interacting with nothing .  it's safe to say everything that could be bad about " flubber " is .  the only original element the film has is the world's first romance between a machine and a human .  but this aspect is quite twisted if you think about it , and , like the rest of the film , you won't . 
pos@ sometimes i find 19th century british costume dramas a little hard to relate to .  it's not the time or the distance , it's the rules and conventions of a social class that deserves resentment rather than sympathy .  yet somehow , the movies are all well made and i always get caught up in the story .  the wings of the dove fits the pattern .  kate ( helena bonham carter ) and merton ( linus roache ) are in love .  merton , a newspaper writer , would like to marry kate .  but kate's " job " , if you will , is to be a member of the british upper class .  her father lost all of her family's money , but a wealthy aunt agreed to take care of her until she married a nice rich man .  naturally , a newspaper writer's wages don't count as " rich . "  kate leads him on , but she always ends up giving him the cold shoulder , ultimately because he's not marriageable .  kate's american friend millie ( alison elliot ) stops in for a visit on her way to venice .  at a party , millie catches a glimpse of merton and likes what she sees .  kate realizes that if merton were introduced to millie , he might forget about her .  it appears that she is trying to spare him from the heartbreak of their inevitable breakup .  merton sees what kate is doing and resents her for it .  he is still in love with kate , and will accept no substitute .  the three of them , along with a fourth friend ( elizabeth mcgovern ) end up on holiday in venice together , where their interactions are quite complicated .  let's sum up : millie has fallen for merton .  merton has no feelings for millie because he is still in love with kate .  kate loves him but can't marry him , so on the one hand she's trying to match him up with someone who will make him happy , but on the other hand she's jealous of them as a couple .  a clear solution presents itself to kate when she realizes that millie is very sick - dying , in fact .  at this point she decides that merton should marry millie until she dies .  millie will leave her money to merton , who will then be rich enough to marry kate .  she lets merton know of her schemes and , since it will help him win kate , he reluctantly agrees .  kate leaves venice so that the two m's can be alone together .  merton finds that pretending to love millie is a lot like actually loving her .  he's not sure he can separate the two .  kate finds that she's not so sure she really wants her merton falling in love with and marrying anyone else .  the brilliant scheme proves to be painful to all involved .  without revealing the details , suffice it to say that the situation ends badly .  the title refers to the object of merton's vain hope that something might lift him from his predicament .  one is left with feelings of regret and despair .  what started as such a promising relationship was damaged by greed , anger , and jealousy .  an interesting thought struck me after the movie was over , and that is that the wings of the dove almost fits the story line of a film noir .  a couple conspires to cheat someone out of their money so they can live happily ever after .  their involvement in the deception makes each less attractive to the other , and after a few things go wrong , the whole idea seems like an awful life-ruining mistake .  i wouldn't call the wings of the dove a film noir , but the comparison is interesting .  as i have acknowledged before , i am not a wonderful judge of acting , but i liked the performances from roache and elliot .  roache successfully conveyed his character's ambivalence toward millie : near the end , he hugs her , at first staring into space , as if he's thinking about his plan with kate , then giving that up to fully embrace millie .  millie's part didn't require as much range , but elliot gave her the necessary bubbly personality that made her irresistible .  i will probably file away the wings of the dove in the same low-traffic corner of my mind as sense and sensibility and persuasion .  their settings are far removed from my personal experience - geographically , historically , and socially .  still , the movies are well made and the stories inevitably win me over . 
neg@ wolfgang petersen's latest , the perfect storm , is like a pineapple .  it only tastes good after arduous peeling and digging - if you try to eat the fruit , spikes and all , it's going to hurt ? quite a bit .  ok , maybe that was a confusing analogy , so here's my main complaint about the latest man battles nature flick : there isn't really much of a story to tell .  basically , a massachusetts fishing crew goes out to sea on a small boat , called the andrea gail , and gets stuck in the middle of " the storm of the century . "  how much time does it take for petersen to tell this story ?  not nearly enough .  so he spends the majority of the film developing pointless side stories which all eventually become superfluous .  audiences want to see the storm , they want to see a fight for survival but what they get is a lot of cliched , maudlin drivel .  the last quarter of the perfect storm is utterly perfect in every aspect , but just try lasting the first three-quarters .  i have yet to read sebastian junger's the perfect storm , but from what i have heard it is an unforgettable tale .  based on a true story , the book must have found some other way to introduce the characters because in the movie version , the approach is weak .  using a wonderfully patriotic score by james horner , petersen almost hides the in-your-face banality .  right away the central characters are introduced : the gritty , determined captain ( george clooney ) , the ingenue ( mark wahlberg ) torn between his job and his girlfriend ( diane lane ) , the loving father ( john c . reilly ) , the comic relief who's always trying to get laid ( john hawkes ) , the new guy ( william fichtner ) who immediately antagonizes a crewmate and the quiet , french guy ( allen payne ) .  so many problems strike the opening segment of the film that the remaining portions directly suffer .  it is not the all-star cast's fault , just the characters designed for their portrayal .  allen payne's character never speaks in the entire movie , not because he is mute , but because he's never given any lines !  are we supposed to root for a guy whose face and voice we are never given a chance to interact with ?  fichtner's character is terribly underdeveloped - we don't know what he's doing there , where he's from , or who he's supposed to be .  the remaining four fishermen are all cardboard stereotypes ( hawkes says to a female stranger in one scene " you know what would look good on you ?  me ! "  ooooh real creative ) .  as the script advances and the andrea gail floats farther out into the waters , the crew continues to not feel human .  only when the storm takes center stage does the movie jump out of its sleepwalk .  the computer-generated images of gigantic waves crashing against a helpless boat are thunderously real .  i can only imagine if this was an imax film , this city kid would surely never go in the water again .  this is loud , jolting entertainment - adjectives that completely negate the rest of the film .  the perfect storm was unfortunately a disappointment .  the maelstrom lived up to its potential but everything else failed to do so .  i guess i'll stick to that other survival spectacle ? you know the one on cbs ? 
pos@ all great things come to an end , and the dot-com era embodies that perfectly .  beneath a mound of bankruptcy paperwork lies the remains of a former dot-com darling , the company kozmo . com ,  an online convenience store stocked with ice cream , porn videos , and other basic necessities of a urban dweller , all hand-delivered by couriers within an hour .  designed in 1997 by two college roommates -- joseph parks , a 27 year old goldman sachs banker , and yong kang - kozmo flamed out in three short years , raising more than $280 million in venture capital funding and from partnerships with such bigwigs as starbucks and amazon . com .  by december 1999 , the company boasted 4 , 000 employees in 11 cities , its barking ceo park attracting all kinds of media attention .  the company was set for an ipo in may 2000 . . .  until april 14 , 2000 , the day the stock market took its first big dive , ending the internet era .  by april 13 , 2001 , kozmo was out of money and ceased operations .  unlike the earlier , similar documentary startup . com , which chronicled the rise and fall of another dot-com , govworks , e-dreams focuses both on its original founders , especially park , and on the common folks that ran the day-to-day operations .  the contrast is amazing , showing how a cult persona can convince anyone that any idea is the next big thing .  the film's director , wonsuk chin ( too tired to die ) , expertly juxtaposes upper management company meetings with on-the-spot interviews with the bike messengers , general managers , and floor staff that kept kozmo humming .  the film's images give a backbone to the company and provide an emotional edge to its ultimate demise .  the most satisfying part of the film comes in understanding , to a degree , the expectations of numerous ceos commanding these titanic-type businesses .  in the film's final interviews with park , we learn what happens when the money dries up and backers don't return phone calls .  in the end , the name of the game was profit , and if you couldn't make money , even the dreamers got the axe .  screened at the 24th annual mill valley film festival . 
neg@ i don't appreciate it when a thriller manipulates the viewer into thinking the plot is interesting , when in fact it's ludicrous .  in the case of the general's daughter , the plot is more than capable of intriguing you to a certain point .  but at this juncture in the story , the movie begins to fall apart like a crumbling cookie .  this predictable summer thriller is only sporadically involving , and that is unfortunately not enough to compensate for all of it's detailed flaws .  get past one moment early on where john travolta exercises his southern accent , and you're likely to survive this entire movie .  travolta plays criminal investigations divisions officer paul brenner , who's working undercover at a military base when another situation arises : the apparent rape and murder of a young female officer ( leslie stefanson ) .  it turns out that the victim is the daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) .  let the investigation begin .  with the assistance of fellow cid investigator sarah sunhill ( played rather on-the-sidelines by madeleine stowe ) , brenner uncovers what appears to be an intricate and bizarre homicide case .  things begin to get marginally engrossing when we meet colonel moore ( james woods ) , a former commanding officer of the deceased who has a few secrets up his sleeve .  woods submits another scene-stealing performance here as he oozes authority , surrounded by clouds of smoke emitted from his cigar .  with echoes of his supporting role in true crime , in which he duked it out with clint eastwood in enjoyably profane verbal exchanges , he makes every moment believable .  here though , the intense dialogue comes care of confrontations with travolta , as the two send mindful , knowing glares across the room .  there are many scenes such as this in the general's daughter , in which the veteran cast performs splendidly under pressure , but the circumstances that tie these meetings together are difficult to absorb .  director simon west ( con air ) , shows a watchful eye of delivering a stylish looking thriller , but he fails miserably when it comes to the intellectual part of it .  the general's daughter is , more often than not , a predictable and unexciting mess .  it does not help matters that the plot is virtually actionless , dragging it's heels all the way at a mind-numbing snails pace .  a few brief action scenes , marvelously handled in the editing department , show that the movie could have delivered such a more proficient package .  from a director who does such a great job of staging explosions and miraculous stunts , i suggest west should stick with mindless , rip-roaring action features and attempt to avoid future projects like this .  still , the movie is certainly not without it's merits .  the acting is very good from the majority of the experienced cast .  the performances range from commanding ( travolta ) to electric ( woods ) to stiff-as-a-board ( cromwell , who doesn't show off his real talents here ) .  madeleine stowe manages to hold her own for a while , but as the female lead in an action-thriller , she doesn't pull through sufficiently .  one of the problems with the execution is that it's very predictable .  >from minute one , i had few doubts about the identity of the killer in question .  the script even unwillingly points him out for us , using familiar techniques to hide his guilt until the unmasking toward the end .  in all fairness , we've seen many of the devices used in the general's daughter put to greater effect in other films .  the secrets behind the girl's mysterious death are explained gradually , but by the resolution we have tunneled through so much malarkey that it feels unnecessary and surprisingly silly .  the general's daughter is not a terrible movie , and it is involving enough to sustain a viewer's attention span for a certain period of time .  but it just could have been so much better . 
pos@ if you thought baz luhrmann's radical take on _william_shakespeare's_romeo_+_juliet_ was wild , wait until what you see what tony award-winning stage director julie taymor ( _the_lion_king : _the_broadway_musical_ ) does to the bard's _titus_andronicus_ for her audacious--and very bloody--film debut .  while luhrmann transplanted the star-crossed lovers to 1990s florida , taymor keeps this grisly tale of revenge in rome--but places it in a surreal temporal limbo .  the colosseum suggests the proper time of imperial rome , but high rises and heavy duty kitchen ovens suggest the 1990s , while the vintage automobiles and some costumes are more '40s and '50s , and other garments are more gladiator-like .  as tamora , queen of goths ( jessica lange ) exacts revenge on roman general titus ( anthony hopkins ) for killing her eldest son , and he does the same to her for the wrongs she commits , taymor obviously wanted to express the timeless relevance of the story's underlying themes .  however , the time convergence approach only works at times , for often it's just distracting , as in one scene where tamora's suviving sons ( matthew rhys and jonathan rhys meyers ) blow off steam playing video arcade games .  taymor didn't have to resort to such avant garde time tricks , for the story would have resonated just as strongly had she jettisoned them .  she is a strong storyteller and a master visual stylist , the latter compliment encompassing all areas , makeup and costume choices as well as those in the editing and photography departments .  she also has a sure way with actors ; hopkins' titus is at once tragic and horrifying , and lange is sultry as the viperous tamora .  the clear standout of the cast , however , is harry lennix as aaron , a moor who is tamora's secret lover and a schemer in his own right .  lennix brings great depth to a role that could have easily been played as a stock villain .  a great villain he indeed is , but to leave it at that isn't giving full justice to his powerful and multi-dimensional work .  _titus_ isn't a complete success , but it is never less than fascinating , and it announces the arrival of a fearlessly imaginative new cinematic voice . 
neg@ i suppose it's unfair to criticize a movie like hudson hawk , which has been panned by reviewers and moviegoers alike since it's 1991 release .  michael lehmann's action-comedy was quick to win the title `biggest box office flop of all time' , or close thereof .  the movie stars bruce willis as renowned cat burglar hudson hawk , who's just been released from sing sing prison after many years in isolation ( `let me put it this way , ' he explains , `i never saw et' ) .  greeting him is his old friend and partner in crime ( played by danny aiello ) , who becomes the subject of many amusing fat jokes .  these are rather welcome in a movie filled with so many completely unfunny sight gags , cartoonish villains and unbelievable coincidences .  it appears as if director lehmann didn't know when to stop all the absurd silliness , and he piles on layer after layer of utter ridiculousness as the movie propels itself toward the finish line .  if at some point during hudson hawk you make the assumption that things couldn't get goofier , you'll soon be eating your words .  but , i'm inclined to say that this film is not quite as terrible as it's box office numbers suggest .  it's fast-paced and entertaining , if you've got incredible patience and a warped sense of humor .  for the first portion of this review , i'm going to try and center on the positive aspects of hudson hawk .  wish me luck .  first and foremost : bruce willis is a good sport .  while i'm not entirely sure what he was smoking when he co-wrote this script , willis is quite aware that the entire project is a big , fat , ugly joke .  he constantly gives deadpan reactions to things that are very silly and out-of-place , which means he has more than his share of deadpan reactions .  another plus is the appearance of andie macdowell as a schizophrenic nun and love interest for the title character .  they meet when hudson goes on a mission to steal a priceless book from the vatican , and their relationship escalates in interest from there .  it's unfortunate that mcdowell's one-note character is used just as an excuse for there to be a predictable plot-twist , and she offers absolutely no encouraging chemistry with willis .  but now i'm rambling on again about the negative things , aren't i ?  enough of the charade - for the most part , hudson hawk is an excruciating experience .  it's stupid , pointless and repetitive .  i can only wonder what bruce willis fans thought after exiting the theater , because this film really doesn't have the potential to please anyone .  action fans should take note that hudson hawk is composed of 90% comedy , and even the action sequences are skittery , rushed and poorly edited .  and those expecting a hearty laugh or two will find it difficult even to smirk during all of the headache-inducing hi-jinks .  don't get me wrong , this film is not devoid of laughs .  it's too bad most of them are unintentional , or just plain forced .  the impressive cast looks suitably embarrassed .  it's understandable to see willis and aiello in a movie of this caliber , but as for the presence of future academy award winner james coburn i'm not entirely sure .  coburn plays a former nemesis of the hawk who again comes into play , and he looks unsure of his place the entire movie .  especially when he resorts to martial arts during the final showdown , and has a fight with willis that would look right at home in a jackie chan film .  things get more bizarre when we're introduced to his team of rejects named after chocolate bars , including future nypd blue star david caruso as the speechless , card-flipping kit-kat .  if that's not enough for you , there's richard e . grant and sandra bernhard hamming it up as a deranged couple on the brink of a convoluted economic takeover .  their crotch-biting pooch provides a couple of the big laughs here .  wait , maybe the only big laughs . . .  i'm not sure what kind of movie everyone had in mind when filming hudson hawk .  i can't even begin to start about the film's absurd plot ; but let's not get into that .  i suppose there's some amusement viewers could derive from the ridiculous premise , if they were that desperate .  but hudson hawk never even has a clue of where it's going from minute one , and from there it's 90 minutes of pure cinematic muck . 
pos@ >from the commercials , this looks like a mild-mannered neil simonesque tale with mary tyler moore baring her bra touted as the highlight .  instead it turns out to be a hilarious film running in high gear from beginning to end .  the concept is deceptively pedestrian .  an adult adopted son is looking for his biological parents and encounters eccentric characters along the way .  the movie demonstrates just how far a good script and actors can take a mundane idea .  the son and his wife take off on the search accompanied by a woman from the agency who located his parents .  following one dead end lead after another , each funnier than the previous , they eventually end up in new mexico with his real biological parents : alan alda and lily tomlin .  it's difficult to condense the mile-a-minute plot .  seemingly hundreds of scenes jump on top of each other without giving you a chance to recover from the last one .  without giving too much away , one of the better episodes involves a gay federal alcohol , tobacco and firearms agent attempting an arrest while tripping on lsd as his bi-sexual partner is upstairs licking the armpit of a woman while her husband is in the next room seducing their traveling companion .  and it's all done in a fairly clean , almost ( well , maybe not exactly ) family fare manner .  a grand cast ( tomlin , alda , moore , ben stiller , patricia arquette , tea leoni , george segal ) interacts in a seamless parade of laughs .  drawing from a more hyper woody allen style , the film succeeds beyond expectations . 
neg@ plot : two teen couples go to a church party , drink and then drive .  they get into an accident .  one of the guys dies , but his girlfriend continues to see him in her life , and has nightmares .  what's the deal ?  watch the movie and " sorta " find out . . .  critique : a mind-fuck movie for the teen generation that touches on a very cool idea , but presents it in a very bad package .  which is what makes this review an even harder one to write , since i generally applaud films which attempt to break the mold , mess with your head and such ( lost highway & memento ) , but there are good and bad ways of making all types of films , and these folks just didn't snag this one correctly .  they seem to have taken this pretty neat concept , but executed it terribly .  so what are the problems with the movie ?  well , its main problem is that it's simply too jumbled .  it starts off " normal " but then downshifts into this " fantasy " world in which you , as an audience member , have no idea what's going on .  there are dreams , there are characters coming back from the dead , there are others who look like the dead , there are strange apparitions , there are disappearances , there are a looooot of chase scenes , there are tons of weird things that happen , and most of it is simply not explained .  now i personally don't mind trying to unravel a film every now and then , but when all it does is give me the same clue over and over again , i get kind of fed up after a while , which is this film's biggest problem .  it's obviously got this big secret to hide , but it seems to want to hide it completely until its final five minutes .  and do they make things entertaining , thrilling or even engaging , in the meantime ?  not really .  the sad part is that the arrow and i both dig on flicks like this , so we actually figured most of it out by the half-way point , so all of the strangeness after that did start to make a little bit of sense , but it still didn't the make the film all that more entertaining .  i guess the bottom line with movies like this is that you should always make sure that the audience is " into it " even before they are given the secret password to enter your world of understanding .  i mean , showing melissa sagemiller running away from visions for about 20 minutes throughout the movie is just plain lazy ! !  okay , we get it . . . there  are people chasing her and we don't know who they are .  do we really need to see it over and over again ?  how about giving us different scenes offering further insight into all of the strangeness going down in the movie ?  apparently , the studio took this film away from its director and chopped it up themselves , and it shows .  there might've been a pretty decent teen mind-fuck movie in here somewhere , but i guess " the suits " decided that turning it into a music video with little edge , would make more sense .  the actors are pretty good for the most part , although wes bentley just seemed to be playing the exact same character that he did in american beauty , only in a new neighborhood .  but my biggest kudos go out to sagemiller , who holds her own throughout the entire film , and actually has you feeling her character's unraveling .  overall , the film doesn't stick because it doesn't entertain , it's confusing , it rarely excites and it feels pretty redundant for most of its runtime , despite a pretty cool ending and explanation to all of the craziness that came before it .  oh , and by the way , this is not a horror or teen slasher flick . . . it's  just packaged to look that way because someone is apparently assuming that the genre is still hot with the kids .  it also wrapped production two years ago and has been sitting on the shelves ever since .  whatever . . . skip  it !  where's joblo coming from ?  a nightmare of elm street 3 ( 7/10 ) - blair witch 2 ( 7/10 ) - the crow ( 9/10 ) - the crow : salvation ( 4/10 ) - lost highway ( 10/10 ) - memento ( 10/10 ) - the others ( 9/10 ) - stir of echoes ( 8/10 ) 
pos@ synopsis : in this movie , steven spielberg , one of today's finest directors , attempts to spice up the 1800s story of a long courtroom battle over the fate of prisoner cinque ( djimon hounsou ) - - a young angry man from sierra leone who was kidnapped into slavery - - and his fellow prisoners .  cinque and friends have landed a ship on the shores of america after escaping spanish slave traders , but since the americans don't speak cinque's language , the black men are hauled into court to determine whether or not they are legally slaves .  technically , since the international slave trade was outlawed at that time , people like cinque couldn't be kidnapped into slavery ; one had to be born a slave to be legally considered a slave .  lawyers baldwin and adams ( matthew mcconaughey and anthony hopkins ) must prove cinque and the others were captured into slavery , rather than born slaves , in order to get them out of prison as free men .  three lengthy court cases are portrayed with spielberg's trademark panache - - flashy beginning , lots of facial close-ups , big music , and dramatic imagery .  a final speech by adams is followed by an anticlimax where subtitles show what eventually happened to the various characters .  opinion : making a fictional movie is easier than making one about real life .  in fiction , one invents purposeful , clear-cut good guys and bad guys , puts the fictional characters in conflict , and takes the tale to its exciting conclusion .  real life , however , consists of long stretches of boredom with a few dramatic moments and characters who stand around , think thoughts and do nothing , or come and go before events are resolved .  spielberg gives us a visually spicy and historically accurate real life story .  djimon hounsou and anthony hopkins turn in excellent performances . 
neg@ at the outset of swordfish , john travolta's gabriel shear is pontificating about the status of american cinema today .  basically , he says , it boils down to a lack of imagination among the majority of writers .  how ironic , as travolta seems to be describing his latest venture .  swordfish is loud , violent and amoral .  it has the audacity to justify murder and mayhem in the name of sustaining our way of life .  and how does travolta's gabriel plan to do this ?  by robbing billions from his own government and using the funds to out-terrorize terrorists .  swordfish is a very cynical movie .  it relies on an audience's perception of our leaders as ineffectual and duplicitous and on terrorists as non-human , faceless entities not worthy of compassion or consideration .  the movie's plot is preposterous with enough illogical leaps that if the film ever slowed down , you'd actually see how ridiculous it all is .  this is a live-action road runner cartoon , moving so quickly that it's over before you can catch your breath to ask any reasonable questions .  the storyline revolves around super hacker stanley jobson ( hugh jackman ) , recruited by gabriel to crack the government's computer codes so gabriel can gather billions for his anti-terrorist campaign .  talk about whacked-out patriotism .  my objections to swordfish are many .  the body count is high , but that is expected in a movie of this sort .  it's becoming a bore watching anonymous soldiers , police officers and government agents blown to bits .  another example is the family dynamics between stanley , his 10-year-old daughter and his ex-wife .  stanley , though having served time in prison for hacking , is shown as a loving and caring father , forbidden by his ex to see his little girl .  audience animosity is immediately created for his former spouse by showing her as a drinker and smoker who also sometimes stars in her new husband's adult films .  thus when she is found murdered late in the movie , neither stanley nor his daughter are allowed any time to grieve .  in fact , subconsciously , many in the audience are probably glad she was killed .  then there is the sequence involving one of gabriel's henchman holding a gun to the head of stanley's daughter to coerce the hacker to download the key computer program for gabriel .  children as pawns have become a most unwelcome clich ? in recent films .  there is enough violence in the real world involving children without having to make them on-screen victims as well .  yea , it's only make believe , but that doesn't mean you have to tolerate it .  travolta is cool , deadly charming and flamboyant as the near-crazy gabriel .  his character is reminiscent of his villainous characterizations in broken arrow and face/off .  jackman looks dour through most of the proceedings .  his only moment of any depth comes when he finally is able to create the worm to get inside the government database .  his sense of joy and accomplishment is one any computer whiz can appreciate .  halle berry is decorative and lovely as gabriel's assistant , while don cheadle is given little to do as the head fbi agent hunting gabriel .  swordfish plays like a comic book with a larger-than-life character in gabriel .  viewers align themselves with him despite their uncertainty if he is hero or villain .  and maybe that is the movie's underlying flaw : there is no real hero to speak of , only those doing their upmost to survive .  and that is not enough .  this is one swordfish that should have been thrown back in the water . 
pos@ seen september 13 , 1998 at 4 p . m at rotterdam square mall cinema 6 , theater #2 , with chris wessell for free using my sony/loews critic's pass .  [theater rating : * * 1/2 : good seats , average sound , picture unstable]   " rounders " is exactly the kind of movie parents don't want their kids to see .  it's not that it's a drunken orgy of sex and violence , but because it's a film that flat-out says you can make a career out of gambling .  and to take make things " worse " it proves this through its original , fascinating story .  there have been countless crime films both past and present that evoke the " noir " mood , that is , the dark , shady atmosphere where the vices of the world become more fascinating on screen than they would in real life .  this film starts off in the tradiational noir style , introducing us to the underworld of modern gambling where the stakes are high and so is the price for losing .  matt damon stars as mike mcdermott , a 20-something law student in present-day new york city who tells us how the game of poker is really played .  damon narrates throughout the film , but the entire opening scene is voiced-over so perfectly to completely and totally define the setting .  mike's about to go up against teddy kgb ( malkovich ) , a russian gangster who looks like a serial killer .  but then again , he practically is one and the film does everything to convey that sense - the look in his eyes , his slow movements , his intricate mannerisms - all combined with the classic noir cinematography of isolated brightness within the darkness of the underworld ( literally ) .  damon in the flesh might seem a little out of place with his expensive clothes and perfectly-groomed features , but his narration is what brings it all together .  he never sounds like he's reading from a script , nor that he's trying to embellish anything , it just comes natural to him .  the screenwriters use the right words and phrases to describe the mood , from the smell of the air , to the logic involved in reading the other guys' faces and cards , and all without sounding remotely trite .  immediately we get the sense that poker isn't for gamblers , but for near- geniuses with nerves of steel .  the game is a quiet war , with strategies just as complex and the same sense of honor among the soldiers .  the gangsters mike plays against are the same ones that might kill someone for scratching their car , but when it comes to the game of poker , all respect is due to the winner because he is truly the better man .  the film does an excellent job in establishing its atmosphere during the first act .  it concentrates so much in this aspect that the background and the progression of the story stumble a bit .  we learn only a little about mike , both past and present .  presently we know he has a girlfriend named jo ( gretchen mol ) who he constantly argues with over his gambling .  they go through a few break-up/make-up cycles until mike's childhood pal and fellow rounder " worm " ( norton ) is released from prison .  it's not at all surprising worm owes thousand of dollars to the mob , but what is surprising is how the film is able to take such a predictable element and execute it the way it does .  technically , the plot isn't unlike many children's sitcoms in which the " good " kid's " bad " friend gets the good kid in trouble and yet the good kid remains friends with the bad kid .  what this film does is use a different medium to tell that story .  mike and worm have been in over their heads their entire lives , but both share a passion for out-thinking the other player who is trying to do the same to them .  where as worm prefers to go the sleazy route of cheating ( hence his jail time ) , mike always takes the cards he's dealt and works with them .  sometimes they pay off ( i . e .  his ability to pay his way through law school on his gambling money ) , but other times they don't ( i . e .  the fact he takes himself out of the game and works a steady job after dropping $30 , 000 on a single hand ) .  once things start happening the film is able to expand and develop its plot into an intricate web of detail and mood .  mike and worm bob and weave through all kinds of games at all kinds of places , from socialites' mansions , to taking the tourists at atlantic city , to outwitting the gangsters that control it all .  everything they come into contact with is a big poker game in that everything's a battle against the cards destiny deals .  one scene demonstrates this perfectly in which mike is told by a judge ( martin landou , in a perfectly cast and performed role ) that destiny is everything and yet nothing at the same time .  matt's good at gambling but he's also got potential to be a great lawyer .  he could go professional as either , but with one he could lose everything or win big , but with the other there's stability but not much risk involved .  can someone who's gambled his entire life really cash in his chips and leave ?  if the film had been just a subtle lesson in poker-playing , then the ending is our test .  everything is told from mike's perspective , but we're finally able to recognize some things on our own .  this makes the final , against-all- odds showdown seem like just that .  it works just like the game it revolves around - showing us some of the cards , but still evokes the element of the unknown , and the consequences thereof .  what separates " rounders " from most other films about games is the fact the challenge and the skills are more important than winning in the end . 
neg@ bad movies described as " a swift descent into sinful pleasure , decay , and debauchery " are hard to watch .  bad 2000's movies that resemble bad 1980s films are even harder to watch .  shadow hours falls into the latter category , a mish-mashed train wreck of b-movie actors ( including michael dorn , aka star trek's worf ) , an uninteresting plot , vain attempts at capitalizing on the " underground " scenes of seedy los angeles , and really , really bad directing and horrendous music video-esque ballistic editing that was taught to me in film school right before i decided to drop out .  the film revolves around the life of michael holloway ( balthazar getty ) who is trying to restart his life with his one-dimensional wife chloe ( rebecca gayheart ) after a nasty bout of drug and alcohol addictions .  michael takes a job of working the graveyard shift at the local gas station and is bombarded by the ugliness and weirdness of the nightlife of l . a . one night , he meets a strange gent named stuart ( mr . buckaroo banzai , peter weller ) .  he drives a porsche , smokes french cigarettes , and drones on about life , eventually coaxing mike into exploring the " underbelly " of l . a . together , a tour of punk bars , s&m clubs , and bare-knuckle fights .  the film then throws in a murder mystery with a cop played peter greene , acting like he wants to get the chance at a reprisal of his role in the mask 2 . the film then simply dissolves into a cheap rip-off of dante's inferno mixed with an old stephen j . cannell television pilot .  the pace of the film is jarring and utterly without focus .  other horrors include the endless montages of people pumping gas and the charlie sheen , johnny depp , richard grieco-esque acting of balthazar getty .  peter weller clearly knows his career is completely gone and doesn't give two shits about it .  and after the cheap exploitation of bondage clubs , dance clubs , and brothels - damn , isn't anyone safe any more from the ugly eye of hollywood ! ?  way back in 1984 , a great but crazy director named abel ferrara made his worse film and called it fear city .  shadow hours reminds me of an almost perfect sequel .  director/writer : isaac eaton producers : peter alevey , andrea mia , shon greenblatt , balthazar getty starring : balthazar getty , peter weller , rebecca gayheart , peter greene , frederic forrest , brad douriff , michael dorn 
pos@ it was only a matter of time before a dilbert-esque office comedy hit the screens .  however , rather than coming from dilbert creator scott adams , office space is instead based on the work of another animator , mike judge , creator of beavis and butthead and king of the hill .  in his live-action directoral debut , judge aptly spoofs corporate culture .  the story is certainly not very involved , but there is plenty of truth and humor to fill the gaps .  peter ( ron livingston ) is a programmer working at the initech corporation .  every day in his mundane life is worse than the one before . . . in  other words , every day is the worst day in his entire life .  he's stuck in a boring job with eight different supervisors , all obsessed with administrative trivialities .  he's smitten with joanna ( jennifer aniston ) , a local waitress , but hasn't the guts to even introduce himself .  everything has simply made him a complete , nervous wreck .  but all of that changes when , after an unintentionally over-effective visit to a hypnotherapist , peter loses all of his inhibitions .  he realizes his lifelong dream : to do absolutely nothing .  he begins to blatantly disregard the nonsensical instructions of his boss , bill lumbergh ( gary cole ) , doing whatever he feels like .  peter's friends and co-workers , samir ( ajay naidu ) and michael bolton ( david herman ) . . . no ,  not that michael bolton , are perplexed by their friend's sudden change in attitude .  but , they have larger things to worry about : rumors about that initech is about to begin downsizing . . .  as bleak as much of this sounds , let me assure you that office space is a comedy , and quite a funny one .  although it shares the same absurdist office humor of the dilbert comic strip , office space is actually based loosely on the series of milton cartoons which aired on saturday night life .  each mundane detail , taken by itself , seems completely , regrettably , plausible .  yet , when combined into a whole , the picture which results is absolutely surreal .  ron livingston tackles his role straight-faced , and becomes much funnier because of it .  his character isn't simply being a clown lampooning around the office , but rather seems possessed by a zen-like clarity .  he is operating on a higher plane , where everything suddenly makes sense , and from this vantage point , he allows the audience to smirk at the absurdities of life .  anyone who has had to deal with the inefficiencies of corporate bureaucracy , or who has ever been frustrated with the technology of modern life , will recognize many of the characters and situations in the film .  in fact , in addition to being wildly humorous , the film may actually prove to be cathartic .  the animated roots of office space show in the film's lack of complexity .  most of the characters in the film can be quickly summarized by a particular personality quirk .  one employee , milton ( stephen root ) , is practically a flesh-and-blood cartoon .  however , despite their simple nature , the characters still manage to be surprisingly funny .  it's not required to have a corporate background to enjoy this film ( though the situations may seem exceedingly far-fetched if you are unfamiliar with just how close to reality they really are ) .  the film is flimsy and absurd , but also very funny . 
neg@ when i was nine , i started buying the coolest toy figures in my local department store .  masters of the universe was the pinnacle of what i was after for action figures : they combined science fiction and fantasy , had cool names like mekanek and stinkor and each came with its own little comic book to read .  of course , the animated series produced by filmation remains one of the most wildly successful television products in world history .  given the tremendous success of the toys and the cartoon ( not to mention its moderately successful spin-off she-ra : princess of power ) , it was inevitable that a production company would put two and two together , come with the result of " trillions " and make a live-action masters movie .  let's be blunt : masters of the universe is a very bad movie .  the story is painfully dull and mind-numbingly cliched ( hands up who * wouldn't * guess he-man and skeletor take their fight into the real world ) and is acted out by either incredibly untalented actors ( dolph lundgren as he-man for one ) or good actors ( james tolkan , meg foster ) given such awful characters and dialogue that they can't help but seem terrible .  it is extremely clear that someone making the movie wanted it to be as good as star wars .  we have the alien bounty hunters , the desert skif technology , stormtrooper lookalikes and a musical score so reminiscent of john williams that " deja vu " is too polite a term to use in describing it .   " blatant uninspired ripoff " would appear more appropriate .  tv fans might want to check out courtney cox ( monica in friends ) and robert duncan mcneill ( lt paris in star trek : voyager ) , very early in their careers and not doing to well in them either .  so in the face of such mindless sub-mediocrity , is there anything to make masters of the universe worth watching at all ?  yes , there is .  one incredible good reason .  his name is frank langella .  langella has always been one of the underrated actors of hollywood , appearing in countless films over the years .  here he plays skeletor , the villain of the piece .  dressed in opulent black velvet robes and bearing a skull for a face , he is one part darth vader , one part emperor and two parts grim reaper .  given this character , langella falls right into it with style and precision .  skeletor is believable , interesting and manages to tread the fine line between being a homage to the past and startlingly original in his own right .  masters of the universe .  i remember loving it when i was eleven .  at twenty one it's difficult to see why .  but , as i said , it is blessed with a superlative villain who makes the entire thing worth the tedium of the remainder .  besides , this year marks the film's 10th anniversary .  watch it with some friends for a good laugh and celebrate . 
pos@ ingredients : james bond , scuba scene , car controlled by cellular telephone  synopsis : warped media tycoon elliot carver ( jonathan pryce ) plots to start a war between britain and china in order to boost ratings by using a 'stealth ship' to fire a captured british missile at the city of beijing .  super-agent james bond ( pierce brosnan ) uses trick gadgets , pluck , and charm in order to foil carver's scheme .  this time bond teams up with top female agent wai lin from china ( michelle yeoh ) .  the film contains fights , chases , gadgets , and comedic moments .  opinion : it does not have a casino scene or a ski scene , but tomorrow never dies is nevertheless a solid , enjoyable bond movie .  it neither stands out nor disappoints .  in old bond movies bond sometimes teamed up with american cia agent felix leiter .  tomorrow never dies introduces a new character in the form of chinese agent wai lin .  like leiter's character , wai lin would be a sure bet for a cameo in a later bond movie .  stars : michelle yeoh was born a leo in the western zodiac in the year of the tiger on the asian astrology calendar .  i dont believe in horoscopes .  but at an airport i once browsed an astrology book with a section on leo tigers ( lts ) .   " leo tigers prefer enough solitude to grow at their own pace .  lts are unbelievably courageous when facing adversity .  the lt is also classy , and has an excellent sense of refinement , but she sees herself as an adventurer , and prefers freedom of movement rather than flashy status symbols .  this person loves family and friends with a fierce loyalty .  she delights in siblings , nephews , nieces and extended family - - but she must have her personal freedom to come and go as she pleases .  sometimes annoyance at injustice drives her to take up one or two causes .  in love life , the lt has an unfortunate mental block against committing to any partner who is less powerful than she . "  in real life , michelle yeoh is asia's top female star .  like jackie chan , she does her own stunts .  she was born in malaysia - - a country of many languages - - and her primary language ( the language she speaks in her sleep ) is english .  she was taught malay in school , and learned cantonese from bilingual parents .  as an athlete michelle represented malaysia internationally .  she enjoyed squash , diving , swimming , and rugby .  she studied ballet at the royal academy of dance in london , but switched to drama after a spinal injury .  in 1983 she won the miss malaysia pageant - - without really intending to , since a family member had entered her in the contest without her knowledge .  notoriety from the contest led eventually to a movie career as an action heroine .  michelle has survived a divorce with asian retail tycoon dickson poon ; a nearly fatal stunt accident falling from a freeway overpass which put her in the hospital for three months , and ; a retirement from the movies .  her comeback from retirement , supercop ( 1992 ) became the top grossing film in asia that year .  it is not clear what michelles martial arts style is , but it may be a theatrical version of wing chun .  of her character wai lin in tomorrow never dies , michelle says , " wai lin is the first bond girl who is on a par with bond , someone who can match up with him mentally and physically . "  my own opinion is that casting michelle yeoh as agent wai lin was an excellent choice . 
neg@ it's actually not so bad that dreamworks decided to release the love letter at about the same time as star wars episode i : the phantom menace , because this way less people will have to sit through this dreadful little comedy .  and no , i really don't feel guilty about wishing this movie death at the box-office .  really , i don't .  not at all .  the plot has been done before -- a mysterious , unaddressed love letter shows up in a small town , causing confusion for everyone who reads it .  the center of the ensuing disaster is bookstore owner helen ( kate capshaw , and by the way , what is it with bookstore owner main characters ?  in the past year and a half we've seen them in life is beautiful , you've got mail , this movie , and the upcoming notting hill ) , who finds the letter in between couch cushions in the bookstore .  she immediately starts testing other people to see who it might be from , and comes to the ( incorrect ) conclusion that the author of the note is a young employee played by tom everett scott .  he , reading the letter himself , assumes that she wrote it for him .  after a while , they fall in love ( well , duh ) .  kate feels guilty about getting in a relationship with someone more than twenty years younger than her , and she also feels guilty because at the same time she is also involved with the town fireman ( tom selleck ) .  to add to her turmoil , her mother shows up ( blythe danner , who apparently must have had her daughter when she was about 9 ) and her trusted bookstore manager ( deadpan ellen degeneres ) quits .  supporting characters aren't called supporting for nothing .  their purpose isn't just to move the plot along , they're also supposed to give the storyline a backbone .  to do this , they must exhibit at least marginal depth and must also be interesting .  rarely can a movie work if it puts an interesting protagonist in the middle and surrounds her with hackneyed , dull , cardboard secondary characters , especially when at the core of the movie is the protagonist's various interactions with them .  this is the love letter's damning error .  capshaw's character is as good as i have seen present in recent romantic comedies , but the people that surround her are all either underwritten or purely one-dimensional .  because of that , the love letter is awkward and insincere .  even worse -- it's a bore .  i liked capshaw and her helen , but everyone else is painfully fake , undermining the little drama or sexual tension that has the potential to exist .  there is nothing particularly hilarious about all this either -- and besides degeneres' wisecracks , there's little that is even a little amusing .  this is not a completely thoughtless film and director peter ho-sun chan does a good job of portraying helen's yearnings and various subtle complexities .  but it's far from profound .  there isn't a common theme running through the proceedings , thus the movie seems thoughtfully pointless .  really , this is a harmless little movie ; it's far from an abomination and it's not torturous to sit through .  but bad , it is .  awful , it also is .  the love letter is a failure , and an inane failure at that .   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
pos@ it was a rainy friday afternoon in columbus when i persuaded a friend to see a matinee performance of mst3k : tm .  he had never seen any episodes of the show , and i have watched a scant few , due to its unsocial airtime on comedy central and the uneven nature of many of the episodes .  for those of you not familiar with the premise , dr clayton forrester ( beaulieu ) wishes to take over the world by finding the worst film ever made and unleashing it upon an unsuspecting public .  to achieve this , he ( in the words of the tv series' theme , which is missing in the movie ) " bumped [mike nelson ( nelson ) ] on the noggin and then shot him into space " , and is monitoring nelson's reactions to the movies he is forced to endure .  rather than succumb to the sheer awfulness of many of the movies , nelson spends his time making wisecracks with the help of his two robot companions , tom servo and crow t . robot .  the format of the show consists of nelson , servo and crow making their comments while silhouetted against the movie being watched , and breaks every 20 minutes or so for segments set on the satellite of love , the ship on which our heroes are marooned .  only two things are different in the movie : the absence of forrester's sidekick , tv's frank , and the slower pace of the jokes .  this latter change is presumably deliberate to avoid the viewing audience missing some of the best lines while laughing from the previous joke .  for their big screen outing , the producers have chosen " this island earth " , a 1954 classic , and one of the first sf films to have a special effects budget larger than the average grocery bill .  unfortunately for that film ( but making it ideal mst3k fodder ) , acting and dialogue appear to have taken a back seat to the effects which , by today's standards , are less than impressive .  nelson & co . make jokes about everything from japan's dominance in the world market , to star trek , to the state of disrepair of seattle's kingdome , and most of them work .  unfortunately , the segments set outside the satellite's movie theater seem out of place and aren't particularly funny , but at least they're fairly short .  the big question about this movie though is : why ?  i presume it was an attempt to gain a larger following to keep support behind the series ( rumours of its impending demise circulated for some time before the plug was eventually pulled a few months ago ) , but the format gains nothing from its transition to the big screen -- there are no special effects to dazzle you , no action sequences to keep you on the edge of your seat , and no use of digital surround sound .  so , it seems pointless to spend $8 per person to see this movie when in a few months it will be out on video and you can watch it for $3 , and not have to sit in a room full of popcorn addicts .  nevertheless , mst3k : tm provides more laugh-out-loud opportunities than any film you're going to see this year , and i thoroughly recommend it to anyone with a pulse .  given its uniqueness , i hesitate to grade it against other films , but it fulfils its claims and so in the class of " unsubtle comedy films whose laughs come at the expense of bad b-movies " it does well . 
neg@ if you're going to make a two-hour hollywood in-joke , why bother releasing it to the general public ?  if you're going to create a film that will appeal primarily to big-name actors and people who know woody allen , then why waste the time of the rest of us peons by playing it in theaters ?  while watching celebrity , i realized that allen had only marginal interest in creating a story about real people .  what he really wanted to do was continue on his recent kick of conceited self-deprecation .  celebrity is yet another film in which allen tells a story about himself , living in a world that he's familiar with , dealing with people like the ones he actually knows .  allen recruited poor kenneth branagh to bumble through this picture , in an imitation of allen so perfect that it almost made me like the film more .  branagh plays lee simon , a journalist-turned-screenwriter who divorces his wife , robin ( judy davis ) , shacks up with some hot women ( famke janssen , charlize theron , winona ryder ) , and goes about trying to get big stars ( melanie griffith , leonardo dicaprio ) to read his script about an armored car robbery .  the usual elements of recent allen films are all here , including the sexual insecurity of the main character , lots of self-loathing women , and a tiring continuum of episodes that are only loosely related to one another .  unless you work in the film industry or know woody allen personally , it's not likely that you'll find a whole lot of interest in celebrity .  aside from all the in-jokes , the story falls far short of compelling , and the characters are all empty and lifeless .  branagh proves once again that he's a superb performer , nailing his imitation of allen flawlessly .  the problem is that he's the same character allen always plays , a character who's getting more than a little dull to watch .  i mean , come on , how many times have you seen this guy ?  -- he hates his work , and he can't be satisfied by any one woman , and , at the end of the movie , nothing has been solved .  he brings all of his problems upon himself ( crashing his car because he's receiving fellatio , and other such stunts ) , so it's pretty hard to care about him .  in addition , isn't allen capable of creating characters who aren't just like him ?  i know he is , but he didn't do it in celebrity .  the vacant emotional attachment with the main character is not recaptured in the supporting performances .  davis , playing the same woman with low self-esteem that she played in deconstructing harry , has a few touching moments , but ends up the same despicable celebrity-type that fills the rest of the movie .  some of the actresses are saved because of their beauty -- theron and ryder , especially -- but they're not likable people .  only famke janssen , as a book editor interested in simon's new novel , has any life .  the men in the picture don't do much better -- joe mantegna is pretty dull as the man who remarries robin , while dicaprio , as a christian slater/johnny depp-type spoiled young actor , is funny but disengaging .  what's really insulting about celebrity is how dull and standard its " themes " are .  allen seems to think that he's making an insightful movie about the way " normal " people look at celebrities .  the main problem with this is that the character with whom we're supposed to identify , simon , is not a " normal " guy -- he's just as entrenched in the hollywood image as the rest of the characters .  the other problem is that the image we get of these celebrities is no more enlightening than the view the media gives us -- none of them register as realistic , interesting characters ; they mostly just function as set pieces for boring dialogue .  in addition , allen decides he needs a scene in which the theme is expressed explicitly ( robin , in this scene , says something like , " it's interesting to see the way we all look at the people we celebrate ! " ) .  celebrity is arguably allen's biggest misfire to date .  it does have a few good scenes -- theron's super-orgasmic model character is kind of funny , and the last scene might have been moving had the rest of the film shown us a character or two .  but celebrity is a failure at the core , unless allen's point was to make a self-indulgent movie about himself and his friends .  if he wanted to make his audience feel like they were on the outside of a big joke , then he succeeded in that .  i , for one , don't enjoy feeling like an outsider . 
pos@ city of angels is the kind of love story that i enjoy the most : thought-provoking , moving , and completely unsentimental .  i find it interesting that this film has been released the same day as my giant , which is a film that is undone completely by its wretched sentimentality .  city of angels is a wonderful film , enhanced by interesting and well-rounded characters and some of the most immersive imagery of the last couple of years .  it's a love story that takes the familiar angel themes and makes them new and necessary to the story , and avoids most of the cliches we're so used to seeing in films like this .  city of angels is an apparently loose remake of wim wenders' 1988 film wings of desire .  i have yet to see wings of desire , so i am , unfortunately , unable to make a comparison of the two .  i have heard , however , that city of angels is dissimilar from the original in numerous ways , which makes me glad that this film isn't a rip-off of its source material .  nicolas cage stars as seth , an angel who , like all of his angel counterparts , is present to lead the dying to heaven ( or somewhere just like it ) .  one day , he is forced to take the life of a patient of dr . maggie rice ( meg ryan ) , and his attention is called to her .  the angels can make themselves seen to humans , but they can't experience any of the senses ( most importantly , touch ) .  he shows himself to maggie , and she falls for him , unaware that he is slightly unavailable because of his apparition status .  seth wants to become human so he can feel her .  that's when he meets nathaniel messinger ( dennis franz ) , " former celestial messenger and recent addition to the human race . "   ( as a side note , i found messinger to be the most fascinating character , for i can only imagine how incredibly liberating it must be to live knowing what lies beyond death . )  messinger explains to seth that it is possible for angels to become human .  seth manages to convince maggie that he is an angel ( i know , it sounds ridiculous , but the scene in which she finds out is exceptionally well-done ) ; after much deliberation , she tells him that she could only be with a man who can feel .  this , of course , is when seth decides to take the plunge ( literally ) from a building ; when he wakes up from the fall , he is human , and happy to feel what it's like to have a split lip and blood oozing from his forehead .  since i love this film so much , i'll make a minor note that it certainly isn't perfect .  although it is original and mesmerizing , it does fall prey to a few of the cliches of the genre .  the plotting of the story by writer dawn steel is rather formulaic ( though the details are what make the story excellent , and steel has done a great job with them ) .  the ending , too , could have been more powerful and less predictable .  these elements are minor , though , and barely detracted from my overall enjoyment of city of angels .  the acting is superb from everyone involved .  this is perhaps my second-favorite performance from cage ( my favorite being the rock ) .  he's quiet and pensive , and his eyes are engaging when he speaks his softly-toned words .  he's perfect for a role like this , and at the same time he reassures us he's not bound by playing the psycho ( though he is good at it , as he shows in face/off ) .  meg ryan is a powerful , enticing , and appealingly-chirpy actress , and her work here is some of her best .  dennis franz , however , steals all of his scenes as the energetic former-angel .  what i admire most about city of angels is its overall presentation .  director brad silberling is a talented man , and he knows that a story like this is driven by the characters , rather than forced sentimentality .  his direction is steady , and he shows this in just about every scene : near the beginning , maggie has to tell a mother and her two children that their father is dead .  there is no music or elaborate camera work ; we simply see the reactions of the characters to the information .  this is the way stories should be told , and the strength of scenes resonates more completely when the emotions are real .  the film also appeals to the senses in a way that few love stories do .  cinematographer john seale ( the english patient ) provides some of the most stunning images i've seen on the big screen : hundreds of black-clad angels stand on a dim beach in the early morning hours ( just as an example ) .  the music , by gabriel yared ( also of the english patient ) , is perfect for this film : it's quiet and moody music ( but not sentimental ! ) , and adds to the atmosphere and tone nicely .  the visual presentation of city of angels is easily the best of 1998 so far .  all of this adds up to a film that is instantly set apart from other members of this genre .  it's a film that relies on character development and imagery to get the story across--the excellent actors and the professional production values make city of angels one of those rare films that both entertains and instigates thought simultaneously . 
neg@ for a good ten years or so , super cool chow yun fat has enjoyed god hood status in the hong kong action scene .  now , he has followed in the footsteps of director john woo , ( who launched chow's super stardom in the acclaimed 'a better tomorrow' ) by moving to hollywood .  i had some reservations about this move and it would seem i was right to have them .  chow plays a hitman who is doing jobs in order to repay a debt .  his final job requires him to kill a policeman's seven year old boy .  this he refuses do and runs .  however , he is forced into a violent confrontation when his family are threatned and replacement killers are brought in to do the job .  cue around 80 minutes of various and quite frankly tedious shoot- outs which take place in various locations .  some thought had gone into making them a bit different but unfortunately they end up being just plain boring .  the car wash scene , i found myself laughing at how stupid it looked .  tut tut .  the emphasis during the constant action seemed to be on the accompanying music , ( i could have sworn one piece was ripped out of a bruckheimer movie ) and not on the content .  mia sorvino ( a passport forger ) is dragged into the affay and also provides a lame love interest as well as being rather handy with a gun .  director antoine arqua has clearly not observed chow's excellent acting capabilties and simply requires him to mutter a few lines of broken english and look flash as he stands and shoots .  chow's trademark of twin pistol shooting is saved for the finale ( which in fairness is quite good ) and there's not even a toothpick in site .  and as for making chow shoot like a cop , well that's damned unforgiveable .  to round up , the replacement killers is a pretty darned lame first outing for chow .  it would appear he has left asia for a 90 minute pop video .  this is not what we wanted at all , considering john woo was the exec producer .   ( did he have no say so at all ? )  watch 'the killer' again and weep at the difference .  review by chris hill .   " there's room at the top , they are telling you still , but first you must learn how to smile as you kill , if you want to be like the folks on the hill . " 
pos@  " crazy/beautiful " suffers from the damned-if-you-do , damned-if-you-don't syndrome .  after a spate of flighty , cookie-cutter teen films , the romantic drama addresses alcoholism and parental loss along with its love story .  but rather than applaud the production , early reviews have dismissed it as an overblown " afterschool special . "  even worse , in the wake of federal trade commission hearings that blasted the industry for marketing violent and sexual movies to young people , the studio got a case of the heebie-jeebies and forced director john stockwell to re-shoot scenes and cut footage to " tone things down . "  needless to say , the filmmaker was frustrated .   " we were trying to make a cautionary tale , " he told newsweek , " and we couldn't show the behavior we were trying to caution people away from . "  regardless , the film works , thanks to exceptional performances from its lead players and a script determined to transcend stereotypes .   " crazy/beautiful " is quality fare , good enough that i half-expected the summer movie crap police to walk into the press screening and confiscate the print for " failure to incorporate explosions and poop jokes . "  set in pacific palisades , calif . , the story follows the burgeoning relationship between two teens .  every morning and evening , carlos nunez ( jay hernandez ) takes a two-hour bus ride in order to attend pacific high school .  an honor student and star athlete , carlos is responsible , modest and focused as he works on securing a place in the naval academy .  all is well until he meets nicole oakley ( kirsten dunst ) , the daughter of a rich congressman ( bruce davison ) .  nicole is a drunk apparently hell-bent on self-destruction .  carlos is smart enough to recognize the danger in getting involved with her , but he is only human and she has the greatest smile .  plus , as her father notes , she has a real knack for drawing others into her downward spiral .  as with " save the last dance , " " crazy/beautiful " ( god , how i hate lower-case titles ) takes situations that look stale on paper and makes them seem fresh .  while noting the racial and social differences between the kids , the screenplay dances around most of the clich ? s ( there are still several mtv moments , though ) .  the filmmakers make a point to give characters that crucial extra bit of shading that turns them into individuals instead of stereotypes and the actors take it from there .  cute-as-a-button dunst forces the viewer to share the pain beneath nicole's behavior .  she is credible enough that when dad urges carlos to get away from her before she drags him down , i hoped the boy would listen .  as carlos , hernandez is a revelation .  hunky without looking like the product of a hollywood design team , the young man can really act ; we will see a lot of this guy in the future .  aside from its title , the biggest problem with " crazy/beautiful " is its ending , which wraps everything up too fast and too tidy .  after carefully presenting credible characters and situations , the conclusion feels rushed and lazy .  still , this is the kind of film that deserves accolades from critics instead of cheap shots .   " afterschool special " my ass ? " crazy/beautiful " is the real deal . 
neg@ funny how your expectations can be defeated , and not in good ways .  the ghost and the darkness promised ( at least , it seemed to me to promise ) a hemingwayesque showdown between men and nature .  what it delivered was mystery science theater 3000-level material -- an inadvertently hilarious story that made me scream advice at the characters .   " get new jobs ! "  was one line , if i remember correctly .  at the end of the 19th century , col . patterson ( val kilmer , whose irish accent comes and goes like an african zephyr ) is an engineer who has been hired to build a british railway bridge across the tsavo river in uganda .  he is having immensely stereotypical problems : the natives are restless , his boss is a jerk , and now two man-eating lions are stalking the work camp and killing people off .  patterson tries to handle the situation himself , incompetently , and then turns to charles remington ( michael douglas ) , a hunter of world reknown ( or something like that ) .  the movie stacks the deck so heavily in favor of the lions , they should have gotten top billing and co-starred with siegfried and roy .  they are nigh-invulnerable , as one comic book put it , and this is of course just the excuse the movie needs to have one native after another stepping forth to solmenly recite lines about the power of nature .  give me a break .  the movie hasn't got the wherewithal to even begin to exploit such ideas ; it's just trying to find convenient ways to stall us .  even the lion hunts themselves are idiotic .  get this : remington's big plan is to build a large scaffold-like structure in the middle of the savannah , sit on it , and wait for the lion to show up .  he does this , and then gets knocked off by a bird .  by the end of the movie , the blood vessels in my palm were all broken open from me pounding my forehead with my hand .  the acting is forgettable .  douglas does a good job of portraying a relatively cracked fellow , but it's nothing he hasn't done before .  kilmer looks like he wishes he were someone else , somewhere else , and the rest vanish into the cinematography .  the camera , by the way , sometimes behaves so stupidly all by itself that most of the lion attacks are incoherent .  what did i expect from this movie ?  i dunno .  some real excitement , i suppose .  a sense that there were formidable forces on both sides of this equation .  no such luck .  i dug out my tattered copy of hemingway's " the short happy life of francis macomber " and read that to get the taste of this movie out of my mind . 
pos@ richard gere can be a commanding actor , but he's not always in great films .  everything comes together here .  gere is a big time chicago defense attorney who takes on a seemingly unwinable case in hopes of even more publicity .  it doesn't go exactly as he expects .  gere's client , aaron ( edward norton ) , is a shy stuttering tennessee boy who is accused of brutally murdering and mutilating a catholic archbishop .  the evidence is stacked against him .  he was caught running from the scene covered in the bishop's blood .  his bloody footprints are all over the murder scene .  he has a relationship with the priest .  gere talks to the boy , believes that he is actually innocent and sets about finding the real killer .  despite the lawyer's proclamations that he doesn't care about the guilt of his clients and that the real thrill is gambling with people's lives , he becomes involved with aaron and is determined to free him .  lots of complications and twists .  the prosecuting attorney is gere's former co-worker and lover .  they both work each other's motives to their legal advantages and it gets messy .  her boss had major economic dealings with the archbishop that went sour and seems to have crime connections .  aaron gets weirder and weirder as the trial goes on .  gere's case is falling apart and he is faced with about a dozen ethical dilemmas .  gere is exceptional as the well-dressed reserved counselor , but just once , i wanted to see him kick back and come out of his " suit " persona .  even when he loses it , you don't see very far inside .  norton's aaron is convincing : he comes across as the backwoods kid misplaced in the big city .  the supporting cast does a fine job of holding together the story .  as with most of the effective courtroom dramas , the cinematography is crisp and rich .  the story will keep you on the edge of your seat .  nothing is what it seems . 
neg@ one of my favorite songs by the stranglers includes the lyric , " you'd better watch out for the skin deep . "  i'd like to extend the same warning : watch out for skin deep , but whatever you do don't watch skin deep .  skin deep is a tedious and uneven comedy written and directed by blake edwards .  john ritter stars as zach , a dried up writer and insatiable womanizer with a big-time drinking problem .  i never saw edwards' comedy the man who loved women , but i have to wonder whether skin deep is a remake .  you see , to put it mildly , zach goes to bed with just about each and every woman he meets .  as the movie opens , zach's wife , alex , catches him with not only his mistress but also his mistress' hairdresser .  like any sensible wife , alex kicks zach out of the house and divorces him .  in response , zach goes on a spiritual journey of drinking , womanizing , psychotherapy , and self-discovery .  if you're turned on by the idea of watching ritter drink , get arrested , have sex , drink , crash his mercedes , have more sex , drink , get arrested again , drink , and sing horrendously at the piano , then skin deep should be right up your alley .  skin deep makes the fatal mistake of inflicting on us unbelievable and unsympathetic characters .  zach is a rich , '80s l . a . version of ritter's jack tripper character from " three's company . "  like jack , zach is clumsy and inept ; he's the type of guy whose bad aim makes him accidently squirt breath freshener into his eye .  zach is supposed to be charming and charismatic , but i failed to see even one redeeming virtue in him .  consequently , i never felt the least bit of sympathy or pity for the philandering alcoholic during his moments of crisis .  in fact , when zach crashes his ex-wife's wedding in a desperate attempt to stop her from remarrying , i actually rooted for her to go through with the ceremony .  to add insult to injury , edwards gives his large supporting cast nothing but stereotypes with which to work .  for instance , vincent gardenia's talents are wasted in his role as the fatherly bartender .  of all the women in the film--and there are many--alyson reed , alone , stands out as zach's wife ; reed brings intelligence and sensitivity to the role .  because we don't care the slightest bit about anyone in skin deep , the film's few feeble attempts at drama inevitably fail .  the comedy in skin deep doesn't fare much better .  most of the jokes are dumb , predictable , and sitcomish .  about every ten minutes , however , edwards does manage to come up with a good line or a novel sight-gag , the most effective of which involves a pair of " dueling " condoms .  overall , the laughs in skin deep are just too infrequent and the characters just too shallow for the film to stay afloat .  my final criticism of the film lies in its glamorous depiction of alcohol and alcoholism .  zach's excessive drinking is clearly ruining his life , but nevertheless it seems to give him more pleasure than pain .  zach's drinking binges never have any truly serious or lasting consequences .  if he crashes his mercedes , he gets a new one .  if he gets arrested , his lawyer bails him out of jail .  if his wife leaves him , she will eventually decide to give him a second chance if he'll clean up his act .  the tone in skin deep is all wrong ; edwards treats a very serious issue far too lightly , making a joke out of a problem that is no joking matter .  perhaps edwards should have studied dudley moore in arthur or , better yet , michael keaton in clean and sober before making skin deep . 
pos@ while screen adaptations of john irving's novels have been disappointingly uneven , the films have all shared one particular strength : key casting .  who can forget john lithgow as roberta muldoon , the transsexual quarterback of " the world according to garp , " or nastassja kinski as susie the bear in " the hotel new hampshire " ?  a lot of good casting decisions have gone into the making of " the cider house rules , " an adaptation of irving's poetic 1994 novel about a restless young man called homer wells .  among those sound judgments was the decision to have the splendid tobey maguire assume the pivotal role ; the decision to cast michael caine as his mentor and father figure , dr . wilbur larch , the ether-addicted head obstetrician of the st . cloud's orphanage , maine ; and the decision to offer jane alexander and kathy baker supporting roles as his head nurses .  then there are the brethren who populate the apple orchard where homer wells finds himself shortly after leaving st . cloud's , including delroy lindo , oscar ? -worthy as the foreman of the migrant work detail that drifts up and down the coast as the seasons take them .  there's kate nelligan as the matriarch of the cider house , and charlize theron as candy , the lovely , lonely wife of a wwii bomber pilot ( paul rudd ) sent away on a mission overseas leaving candy to set lobster traps with homer wells , a man who's never seen the ocean before let alone a lobster .  am i forgetting anyone ?  yes .  kieran culkin and paz de la huerta as dissolute orphanage residents who make you sit up and take notice every time they're on the screen .  but with " the cider house rules , " the good people decisions don't end with the cast .  irving has written his own screenplay in order to get it right this time ( last year's " simon birch , " loosely based on his " a prayer for owen meaney , " was a big-screen example of irving handled sub-standardly ) ; the author appears fleetingly as a stationmaster here .  rachel portman , a composer of such sweet and lyrical tenderness , provides a score that's absolutely right for the project--sweet , lyrical , and tender .  there's impressive new england photography by oliver stapleton too .  last but by no means least is " my life as a dog " director lasse hallstr ? m , who shows enormous skill in pulling this collective together and helping bring irving's marvelously touching story to life .  for the many beloved who pass away in " the cider house rules , " it's an extraordinarily life-affirming story .  and now , thanks to these talented individuals , it's an extraordinarily life-affirming film . 
neg@ when critics attack seemingly well-intentioned films like patch adams or more recently pay it forward as i am about to do , their opinions are often greeted with a backlash of angry e-mails , sometimes even mock death threats from those who ( i suppose ) like to be shamelessly manipulated by their entertainment .  even politicians ( ! )  tend to dismiss film critics as heartless cynics for occasionally dumping on good-hearted films while praising " filth " like pulp fiction .  these [fill in the derogatory term that you are comfortable with] tend to forget that a film critic's job is to review the movie , not the message , however sweet and endearing that message may be .  thusly patch adams isn't a bad film because it's about a doctor who cares for his patients ; it's a bad film because it's a calculated piece of brazen audience exploitation .  similarly while pay it forward may have its heart in the right place ( though i even doubt that , stay tuned , an explanation is forthcoming ) , it's still an unpleasantly maudlin mess .  the picture is about an emotionally guarded 5th grade history teacher ( a somewhat similarly guarded kevin spacey ) , with a burn scared face and equally singed attitude , who gives his class the seemingly impossible assignment of doing one thing over the course of the semester that will change the world .  12 year old trevor ( haley joel osmet ) , a disneyfied do gooder who takes care of his alcoholic mother ( helen hunt ) , comes up with the notion to pay it forward ; this entails a person doing one good deed ( call it an uber favor ) for three others , then telling them to do the same for three others and before long we're all living in a frank capra movie .  meanwhile in a parallel story , a weasely reporter ( jay mohr ) tracks the " movement " which has apparently begun to grow .  pay it forward has odd ideas about tone ; at certain points it hurls a smattering of unnecessary cynicism at us as if that would be the appropriate antidote to the unrelenting sappiness at its core .  it's as if director mimi leder didn't have the confidence to make pay it forward the way she intended , and compromised out of fear that her film wasn't " gutsy " enough to earn the acclaim it has clearly been made for .  so the picture adds grit ( a child molester propositions trevor , a homeless man returns to heroin after being " saved " , a character is knifed while doing a good deed , etc ) though it seems shallow , incorporated into the proceedings because the film itself isn't quite sure if it's ready to buy into its own utopian blather .  pay it forward offers " crowd pleasing " elements for general audiences ; jay mohr's umpteenth variation on the waspy sleazeball , angie dickinson's earthy alcoholic bag woman , and the jive-talking " black hoodlum with a heart of gold " ( coming on the heals of the black , god-like inmate embodied by gabriel casseus in bedazzled , this may just be the beginnings of a brand new guilty white liberal clich ? .  hurray for hollywood ) who actually calls the mohr character a " nigga " and says things like " can you feel me ? "  leave it to pay it forward to happily include a little minstrel act for our further enjoyment .   ( maybe spike's flick wasn't so misguided after all ) .  these scenes feel as if they belong in a dopey comedy with feel good aspirations rather than the irritatingly saccharine drama that you'll find yourself trapped in should you not heed my warnings .  while the filmmakers have stressed in interviews that they actually hope this is a film that could make the world a better place , to me the final product has the oily feel of a cynical politician contemptuously reciting cookie fortune slogans to a hopeful audience .  it's a picture that looks to be tailor made for academy consideration , with the main players ( all previous oscar winners or nominees ) given big emotional scenes that are practically variations on their most lauded turns .  one scene in which a slightly de-glamed helen hunt ( de-glamed here means that not only is she a fashion victim [her look is somewhere between goth queen and trailer park mama] , hunt's hair is also natty and badly bleached ) verbally castigates spacey , feels right out of her as good as it gets oscar clip .  spacey , of course , responds in his cultured monotone , that could be straight from his low key american beauty performance .  maybe the actor should get an award for coming off the least self consciously irritating ; though how can he not , even when he's emoting spacey seems somehow shielded by a wry indifference .  the usually talented helen hunt is the worst offender .  in one atrocious touched by an angel moment hunt slaps osmet , immediately covering her mouth with the guilty hand in that very same stroke , and with said hand still on said mouth , she actually begins convulsing ( dry heaving really ) , then ( and i'm not making this up ) she scurries to the kitchen tearing the place apart in a frenzied search for alcohol .  the scene is so hokey it could very nearly be construed as a parody of hackneyed tv movie blow-ups ; it's all very theatrical , especially hunt's performance , which feels like a pathetic plea to the academy for another oscar .  pay it forward has the dubious distinction of being a film that could be used as an argument for why actors shouldn't get academy awards .  the picture unknowingly affirms that oscars transform nuanced talent into overwrought expressionists .  even haley joel osemt , the wunderkind who was nominated for an academy award for his unforced performance in sixth sense , seems more divisive about his expressions and inflections .  his acting has become broader , less intimate ; it's as if we can make out the little munchkin's thoughts : " boy this outta floor em " .  naturally osmet is made to play one of those only-in-the-movies children , a martyr-figure who cleans up after his mother , lectures her on the ills of drinking , and even fixes her up on a date with his intellectual teacher .  never mind that the two couldn't be more dissimilar ; his mother is trailer trash dopey , and the teacher is one of those dennis miller-ey intellectuals who hides his insecurities behind a vast vocabulary .  nevertheless this little nudnik goes out of his way to bring the pair together in a scene that recalls parent trap-ish cornball antics .  but oh how we love bright , articulate , self-sacrificing children who pick adults up by their bootstraps and guide them through life .  they're so adorable .  of course the blame can't all be hoisted onto the actors ( though with the exception of the little kid , they probably should have known better ) , instead the brunt of it should be passed on to mimi leder , who directed one of the most thrilling episodes of er , then went on to make two awful genre films in a row .  the first being the peacemaker , a witless post-cold war george clooney vehicle , and deep impact , one of the two films of 1998 to squander the premise of earth's possible demise by a crazed meteorite .  the first flick was sunk by an over reliance on clich ? s , and a complete absence of any kind of emotional involvement , not aided by an ending which actually centered around the diffusing of a ticking time bomb complete with digital read out ( apparently present for an invisible audience ) .  deep impact has more in common with pay it forward ; it's a movie that treats earth's impending destruction in awfully simplistic terms , completely ignoring the havoc that would so obviously take place if the world believed its planet would be a goner within days .  the film was full of inspirational speeches where people really said nothing , though the sappy score swelled up to make it appear as if they were being profoundly touching .  in pay it forward leder continues in this vein with her intermittent dollops of cynicism seeming almost like a rebuttal : " see my movie isn't as na ? ve as you might think " she seems to be saying .  no , it's just horribly confused . 
pos@ when casting the key part of the voice of moses , most people's first candidate would probably not be the controversial actor val kilmer ( the saint and the island of dr .  moreau ) , but he was dreamworks's choice in their first traditionally animated movie , the prince of egypt .  the selection of kilmer proved to be a wise one , but the biggest risk dreamworks took wasn't in the casting department .  the radical departure was that they decided to use the medium of animation to make a biblical epic , a la cecil b . demille , to move our hearts and minds rather than to tickle our funny bones .  in the press kit producer penney cox says that they wanted to make a film for adults based on sophisticated themes but one that did not exclude children .  animated movies for adults that are appropriate for kids and that are not comedies , now that is something fresh .  let me admit up-front that i was quite skeptical as to whether dreamworks could pull it off .  dreamworks's antz seemed to be a movie not quite appropriate for any age group .  the prince of egypt may be harder to market than antz , but it is much more satisfying .  like antz and unlike the more modest casting of pixar's a bug's life , the prince of egpyt has half of hollywood doing the voices .  danny glover is the voice of jethro , jeff goldblum of aaron , steve martin of hotep , helen mirren of the queen , michelle pfeiffer of tzipporah , martin short of huy and patrick stewart of seti .  you can figure out for yourself who does the voice of god .  the movie , which is weakest in the story department , is a cliff's notes version of demille's the ten commandments .  the script by kelly asbury and lorna cook has an obsession with touching briefly on every classic event in moses's life .  demille took over three and a half hours in order to do it justice .  at less than half of that , the prince of egypt rushes through so much material that it doesn't establish sufficient depth for us to bond with the characters .  we meet moses when the queen finds him floating in his little basket .  we watch him grow up and become best bud and a chariot racing partner to ramses ( ralph fiennes ) , the future pharaoh .  moses is a free spirit and a practical joker until he finds out his true identity as a jew .   ( " all i've ever known to be true is a lie , " moses complains . )  after finding out his real identity , he sees for the first time the oppression of the jewish slaves that are all around him .  after leaving egypt , moses comes back to ask ramses to let moses's people go .  this leads to the classic scene of the parting of the red sea , which is one of many places where computers were used to enhance the traditionally hand-drawn animation of the most of the production .  it is the absolutely stunning visuals that make the movie so compelling .  drawn with a rich palette of luxurious roses , blues and golds , the picture looks sumptuous from its first frame to its last .  the construction of the temple is shown in blowing dust , and other scenes are shot with the glow of a rising sun .  the most original visual sequence in the film occurs during a dream moses has .  done with an explicit two-dimensional look , the colorful images painted on the temple walls come to life to tell their own animated story .  even though it has its weaknesses , the prince of egypt is a noble attempt to carve out a new genre -- serious animated movies for adults that are acceptable for the entire family .  this awe-inspiring movie deserves to be seen .  the prince of egypt runs about 1 : 30 .  it is rated pg for thematic elements and would be fine for the whole family .  how old a kid would need to be to be interested depends on the child , but those over 8 will probably like it . 
neg@ as bad as " mimic " was , it definitly scared me .   " mimic " continued the frightening hollywood trend of taking a foreign director who shows a lot of creative ingenuity and style , and completely flushing it when he comes to america to make a movie .  director guillermo del toro was recently imported from mexico after he made the award winning and inventive horror film " cronos . "  that movie worked because it took an unconventional story , unique characters and well written plot and dialogue to create a truly scary movie .  in " mimic " , del toro doesn't bother to give us anything original .  the plot is a stupid combination of " aliens " meets " species " meets " jurassic park . "  the characters have been recycled from a few hundred other movies .  there's nothing new in " mimic " .  it's just a bunch of old tricks that rarely work .  at the end of the movie , you're stuck wanting your money back .  maybe the worst thing about the movie is that del toro followed another annoying trend of recent movies : he forgot to turn the lights on .  i don't understand why suspense movies lately have to follow the " seven " trend and be set in dark , dank areas .  watching " mimic " i was tempted several times to yell at the screen " turn the lights on !  the switch is to your right !  use common sense !  just do it !  you'll be able to see the monster in the corner ! "  there's a scene where mira sorvino is standing in subway station while the lights are flickering on and off .  it looked like the light operator was having a seizure , and sorvino didn't even notice - she just stood there looking like she was having deep thoughts .   " hmmm . . . .  i think bean soup would be good for dinner tonight . "   " mimic " has a lot of incidental shock tactics ( boo !  just kidding ! ) and follows them up with the real scare , but nothing in this movie scares you .  the audience in the theater never jumped during suspenseful moments ; i think they were bored , too .  i shouldn't blame del toro .  he isn't the first successful foreign director to come to hollywood and make a bad movie .  hong kong director john woo made two of the best action films of all time , " the killer " and " hard boiled " then came to america to make the stupid " broken arrow . "  french directors luc besson ( " la femme nikita " ) and george sluizer ( " the vanishing " ) followed woo's lead and made dumbed down versions of those movies .  robert rodriguez , who directed the terrific low budget " el mariachi " came to hollywood and directed the horrible , high-budget " desperado . "  i don't know why a foreign director who shows such talent in his country can't make a good american movie .  woo finally broke through and made " face/off " , but it still isn't up to par with his earlier films .  i get the feeling a hollywood producer sits in his office , chews on a big smelly cigar and says to the director , " welcome to america !  i bet you must be tired after being on that boat for so long .  do you speak english ?  now , i know you think you've made good movies in the past , but now you're in america , so things are a little different here .  just remember what the american audience always wants , and you'll be fine .  they want to see at least one big breasted woman , characters that they've seen a thousand times before ( because change scares americans ) , and you always need a cheesy feel-good ending to wrap things up .  if you don't make that kind of movie , you'll be shining my shoes in no time . " 
pos@ damn those trailers .  had it not been for the advertising of this film , which reveals far too much about its contents , i would have been glued to `under the sand' .  as it is , the film retains some value , thanks to an excellent performance by charlotte rampling , and a more mature francois ozon in the director's chair .  marie ( charlotte rampling ) and her husband jean ( bruno cremer ) lounge on the beach .  she takes a nap while he goes for a swim .  when marie wakes up , jean is nowhere to be found .  she contacts authorities , but they can't find him either .  did he disappear to start a new life ?  was he killed by accident ?  did he commit suicide ?  marie still asks herself these questions a year later , and in order to move on with her life , she must find some answers .  it's a fine premise , and this little movie uses it to the limit .  the film moves at a leisurely pace , a bit slow , but relaxing .  it's a very visual story , and you can pretty much just sit back without reading the subtitles .  this is mostly thanks to the excellent camera work by antoine heberle and jeanne lapoirie , who shot the film in a dreamy haze , and the lead performance by rampling .  rampling is so expressive in her portrayal of marie , you connect with her character instantly , despite that she's delusional .  the scenes where she interacts with her husband , who she still believes is alive , are heartbreaking .  she can't quite get over him .  they've been married for twenty-five years .  the other actors , particularly jacques nolot , are excellent too .  the sex in the film is rather unneeded , but compared to ozon's `criminal lovers' , it's the disney channel .  likely to cause some discussion afterwards , `under the sand' is a fine movie going experience .  while it's hard to recommend as entertainment , it's a fine adult alternative about how we deal with loss .  ozon seems to ask what you would do , and that's certainly a hard question to answer . 
neg@ when i watch a movie like mike nichols' what planet are you from ?  i can't help but feel like everyone is looking at me .  it's as if all the audience is gazing at the back of my head in the darkness , eyes shooting daggers , quietly blaming me for the fact that they paid hard-earned money to spend their time watching this . . .  this . . .  thing .  i shift uncomfortably in my seat .  i'm reminded of how i feel when i see a pair of second- or third-rate celebrities engaging in a teleprompted " funny " conversation to introduce the next blockbuster award .  it's not my fault , i know it's not my fault , but dammit , someone's gotta be embarrassed , because it doesn't look like anyone on the screen is ready to take the blame .  i'm about to give you a list of names of people who are gonna make a movie together : garry shandling , annette bening , john goodman , greg kinnear , mike nichols .  do any of these names make you instantly shudder ?  the answer i would have come up with before today is no , this is quite a list of talented individuals we've got here .  granted , john goodman was in the flintstones , and greg kinnear has turned in some less-than-lackluster leading man performances in certified failures like a smile like yours , but even so , they've got proven power as excellent supporting players .  garry shandling has two television classics under his belt , his ingenious little it's garry shandling's show and the larry sanders show .  and for god's sake , mike nichols directed the graduate , and annette bening is just walking away from american beauty .  so explain this . . .  this . . .  thing .  what planet are you from ?  purports to be a comedy exploring the relationship between men and women satirizing the whole pop-psychology mars/venus phenomenon .  but what this movie winds up being is a collection of unfunny cringe-inducing moments coupled with uninsightful cringe-inducing moments ; the end result is , unsurprisingly , an unfunny , uninsightful , cringe-inducing , thoroughly icky embarrassment .  garry shandling plays an alien from a planet populated by technologically advanced but emotionally vacant males ( they reproduce through cloning , of course ) .  his leaders put a select group of males through a series of tests designed to determine which one is most fit to fly off to earth , find a female of the species , and impregnate her .  they're taught how to pretend that they're listening by nodding and saying " uh-huh , " and how to compliment shoes .  imagine my delighted surprise when , oh heavens , all their carefully practiced tactics turn out to fail miserably , producing comedic results !  the lucky winner is fitted with a penis ( since theirs , after generations of disuse have long since shrunk out of existence . . .  i will restrain myself from mentioning the implausibility of such a scenario since the population has stopped evolving due to the fact that they're all just clones . . .  whoops , too late . )  the penis , when aroused , tends to make a humming noise .  the writers , when frequently strapped for ideas , tend to turn to this as a source of " comedy . "  it isn't funny the first time .  it isn't funny the eighth time .  it isn't funny the eighteenth time .  if anything , it made me feel vaguely self-conscious .  garry meets up with a coworker at a bank played by greg kinnear , who turns out to be a generic , unlikable scumbag .  he's meant to fill the part of unfortunate role model for shandling's alien character , but he's so flatly drawn that even the writers quickly give up and toss him aside .  kinnear's scumbagginess is demonstrated by the fact that he claims other peoples' work as his own to worm his way into a vice presidents' position and goes to aa meetings to pick up chicks .  wow .  what a magnificent bastard .  nearly every man in the movie , in fact , is played as the same sort of sex-driven slimeball .  when kinnear's wife walks into the office , there isn't a single guy who doesn't trip , bump into a wall , or otherwise pratfall as if they'd never seen a woman before .  the few guys that aren't particularly slimeballs , such as john goodman's detective character , are simply uncommunicative workaholics .  shandling meets up with annette bening , who will inevitably prove to be the love he never knew existed , at one of kinnear's aa meetings .  shandling's mission is to have a baby , and when he reveals his desires to her , bening instantly falls for him , and the next day . . .  they get married .  yup .  the next day .  cuz ya see , it turns out she wants a baby too !  bening's character perhaps was the most difficult to watch , especially after seeing her come apart at the seams so effectively in american beauty . . .  if her character here is supposed to be representing the female of the species as a whole , then woe , i say , to the species .  she's unfathomably insecure , and succumbs so easily to all of shandling's lines and lies that it borders on tragic .  there's a point where , after thinking she may not be able to bear children , she learns that she is indeed pregnant .  when garry comes home after nearly cheating on her , she strolls into the kitchen and sings " high hopes " ( you know , the uplifting ant and the rubber tree plant song ) to deliver the news , and then says to him , " now you can't leave me . "  we're supposed to empathize with shandling's discovery of the feeling of " guilt , " but instead i wanted to weep for bening that she was placing her entire life and soul firmly in the lap of a great big nothing .  and eventually , shandling falls in love with her . . .  for real , i suppose , though i'm not sure exactly what prompted it .  what's the message i derive from all this ?  men are liars , inherently empty creatures , but if you hang around long enough . . .  well , maybe something will click .  ha ha . . .  ha ?  i'm thankful such broad cynicism isn't frequently allowed to run so rampant .  let's all join hands and pray that the planet these folks are from is not this one .  there's also a subplot involving john goodman as an airline incident investigator that wades in the bog of stupidity .  goodman , through a series of astoundingly implausible realizations , puts together the fact that shandling is a being from another world with a magic , vibrating penis .  it has all the makings for a subplot of having shandling be discovered , that , thankfully , never comes to the inevitable hackneyed fruition .  instead , it just dangles limply on the branch for a while , withers , and falls away .  further proof that goodman should just stick to doing coen brothers movies .  but let's not dwell on this any longer , i've already wasted plenty of your time and my own .  let's move on , forget about what we've seen here , and get on with our lives .  and to help us out , let's end things on a happy note . . .  congratuations go out to annette bening , winner of this week's " title ! "  award , for delivering the awkward line of dialog containing the movie's name . 
pos@ this is a stagy film adapted from roger rueff's play " hospitality suite . ''its  about three travelling salesmen attending an industrial convention , whose chicago company has sent them to wichita , where the company has paid all their expenses for them to rent a hospitality suite on the 16th floor of the hotel , where they aim to score a substantial account from the big kahuna , someone named dick fuller , who is the head of a big industrial corporation .  he is someone they have never met before , but they want to sell him industrial lubricants and they want desperately to land this new account , it is their only reason for coming to the convention .   " the big kahuna " revels in salesmen-talk among the three white christian males , two of them , larry ( spacey ) and phil ( devito ) , who are veteran salesmen , having teamed together for the last twelve years , while bob ( facinelli ) is a young man who has just recently been hired by the firm and works in the research department .  these three are virtually imprisoned in their small hospitality suite waiting to meet the big kahuna , as the focus of this claustrophobic film is on their interactions in the hospitality suite .  the three salesmen have different things on their mind that is troubling them and a different attitude to their job , and they are each going through internal changes that are profoundly altering their life .  the outstanding cast tries to figure out in their own way what they are doing and why .  what comes into question is their opinions on life and death , on god and morality , and on how they make a living .  these are tough questions and the truth seems to be somewhere in their sales pitch .  their dialogue is acerbic , witty , and analytical .  following in the long tradition of salesmen films -- from death of a salesman , the tin men , and glengarry glen ross , as this film tries to get you to see what there is about salesmanship that gets these men high .  in this case , it is landing the big kahuna .  they each are trying to see why he's on top and why they are chasing after him .  what makes this film different than the others , is its blatant religious message , comparing orthodox religion to what they do , as both must sell their product .  and how after each one's psyche is stripped clean by the other , there is a pause and some lesson about life has sunk in that is pertinent to each .  the goal in the movie is not in literally landing the big kahuna , but in finding out what bill of goods they sold themselves that made them be salesmen .  larry and phil have one way of doing things and have no qualms of incorporating a sales pitch as part of their life .  bob thinks he is above the fray and he pitches every chance he can get about his belief in jesus christ .  his vacuous character and smug outlook on life are covered by a disarming smile and an eagerness for him to prove in his actions the words of jesus he literally believes in .  bob is a baptist , who takes a very non-questioning and literal attitude about religion .  to just look at another woman and lust after her is a sin , according to the way he reads the bible .  when asked by larry why he married his wife , he seems puzzled and can't even say because he loves her , only that marriage is something sacred to him .  the contrast in their personalities is stark .  larry is all business , he simply wants to close the sale .  he comes into the room pumped for the convention , using his attack mode to establish how serious he is about being a salesman .  he criticizes phil for being so placid , for getting such a small suite , for having the cheap food tray of carrot sticks rather than the one of stuffed shrimp , and for being burned-out .  he tells him to go on a vacation .  get a woman .  while phil is reflective on where all his best years have gone for him and is contemplating a career change , now that he is 52 and is painfully divorcing his wife , after having lived too lonely a life on the road for too long .  he now finds himself suffering from some troubling dreams and questioning what he believes in .  he has always been a charmer , shaking everyone's hand , trying to please his clients while trying to make the sale .  larry is more aggressive as a salesman , he is always a heart attack away from every big sale .  in contrast , bob is only in his twenties and everything seems fresh to him .  this is his first time for him on the road .  when dick fuller doesn't arrive at the party the salesmen throw , larry becomes confrontational and asks phil if he spoke to the man himself about the gathering .  when told that he spoke to the secretary , larry throws a tantrum and is resigned to going back to their home office without the new account .  but when they start talking to bob , whom they forced to act as the bartender , they are surprised to learn that fuller did indeed come but was wearing another man's name tag and that bob spent the entire evening consoling the tycoon over his recently deceased dog and then talking to him about jesus .  bob then tells the boys about a private party fuller is attending afterwards , and that he invited bob to attend .  larry and phil can't fathom how bob didn't make a sales pitch .  but they soon take another tact and decide to prep bob on how to get fuller's attention about their company's product as they sent him off to meet fuller , and will await his return in the hotel room .  these two sharp salesmen are reduced to waiting for this smug kid to come back and tell them he saved their ass .  the irony of their situation is played out in the darkness of the hotel room , as they stay up late into the night trying to make sense out of their lives .  these three performers were outstanding , each understanding what their role called for , each coming through with a marvelous performance .  the only problem with the film , is that its more of a play than a cinematic experience .  but the insightful dialogue and refreshing dramatics , give it an intelligent selling point and make it a good product to see . 
neg@ walken stars as a mobster who is kidnapped and held for ransom by four bratty rich kids .  it seems that a woman has also been kidnapped--she is the sister of one of them ( e . t . 's  henry thomas ) and the girlfriend of another ( flannery ) --and the asking price is $2 million , which said snots are unable to cough up alone .  they even cut off walken's finger to show they mean business , because they are desperate to save the woman's life .  suicide kings is a terrible film .  walken aside , there isn't a single appealing cast member .  o'fallon creates characters that are functional types without any resonance .  in an amusingly unironic scene , walken plays poker with the foursome and describes each of their personalities to a tee--it's as if he was reading the summary sheet for a casting director .  the plot is another issue entirely .  o'fallon is someone whom i'm betting has seen reservoir dogs and the usual suspects too many times , for not only does his story veer off on bizarre tangents from whence they never return ( do we really need the scene where dennis leary beats up an abusive father with a toaster , which is entirely unrelated to both the story and leary's character , or the numerous anecdotal sequences ? ) , but the central plot itself is a serpentine mess , filled with crosses and double crosses and triple crosses . . .  by the fourth big revelation/twist , i had completely tuned out , wondering what on earth attracted these actors to the material .  recently a peer , a fellow young filmmaker , informed me that he had an idea for a movie about four guys , the mob , and the fbi .  it occurred to me then what's wrong with indies like suicide kings : i suspect o'fallon has never met a mobster , is not a rich man , doesn't deliver endless " clever " monologues to his friends about his favourite types of boots . . .  in short , these guys are just riffing on other movies , and in doing that , making the same film over and over and over again .  tarantino found his niche and now hundreds of genxers with movie cameras are trying to find tarantino's niche instead of carving their own .  -reviewed at the toronto international film festival 
pos@ to paraphrase a song title from an earlier disney movie , mulan is a whole new world .  the mouse factory's latest feature is a treasure , featuring magnificent animation , a strong story and finely drawn characters .  mulan is the story of a fiesty , head-strong young woman who , unlike other disney heroines , isn't seeking her prince charming ,  mulan's motivations are simple ; to save her father , serve her country and find a place for herself in a world in which females have no say .  the story of mulan takes place in ancient china at a time when the huns have invaded the nation .  the emperor has called for a conscription , one man from each family to join the army and defend the nation .  mulan's crippled father is called , but mulan sneaks off , steals his armor and takes his place .  mulan is a saga of courage and self-discovery .  yet , despite the grim backdrop of war , it is a lively tale of self-reliance and brain-over-brawn that even the smallest child can appreciate and enjoy .  the movie utilizes a strong corps of asian-american talent as the voices for the main characters , including the wonderful ming-na wen ( the joy luck club ) as mulan , b . d .  wong as shang , mulan's commanding officer and later love interest , pat morita as the emperor and the veteran soon-tek oh as mulan's proud , but loving father .  also adding to the proceedings is eddie murphy as mushu the dragon , sent by mulan's ancestors to watch over and help the young woman .  his fast , wise-cracking , hip-talking mushu may seem out of place , but it's a crowd pleasing performance , especially for the youngsters .  the movie features only a couple of songs , fewer than most previous disney animated flicks , but mulan's are winners .  the music by matthew wilder and lyrics by david zippel fit nicely into the plot .  the overall score by jerry goldsmith also is a plus .  mulan is a treat , more powerful than hercules , with more heart than the hunchback of notre dame .  at about 85 minutes , mulan moves rapidly , and will hold the attention of youngsters from beginning to the end .  mulan will set a new standard by which future animated efforts by disney and other studios will have to work hard to attain .  also , it is hoped that the success of mulan , and there is no doubt that it will prove to be a popular vehicle , will spur an interest for more movies with oriential or asian-american themes so as to provide more substantial roles for the talented performers who gave their voices for this production .  it would be nice to see them on screen as well as hear them .  committed to lifelong learning through effective communication 
neg@ for " original sin , " the road to the screen has been rocky .  initially slated for release last november , the film was bumped twice , finally landing in the dog days of summer 2001 .  advance screenings of the film were denied to all but a few critics , generally a sign that the studio realizes it has a dud on its hands .  so is " original sin " really all that bad ?  yes it is , but the melodrama does offer some rewards .  the location settings are gorgeous and there is a healthy sprinkling of t&a ( with angelina jolie providing the " t " and antonio banderas the " a " ) .  more importantly , the movie is entertainingly bad .  veteran readers know that , as a rule , i don't encourage people to patronize lousy films .  most of the time , there are plenty of quality offerings on the marketplace that are more deserving of our money and besides , the " let's go laugh at the failings of others " mindset reflects an elitism that makes me uncomfortable .  but things are different this summer .  quality films , to put it mildly , have been few and far between , so as far as i'm concerned , it's fair to find our kicks where we may .   " original sin " will never join such treasures as " valley of the dolls , " " road house " and " showgirls " in the bad movie hall of fame , but it'll do until something worse comes along .  the film , adapted by director michael cristofer from the cornell woolrich novel , " waltz into darkness " ( which was also the source for the 1969 francois truffaut film , " mississippi mermaid " ) , opens in a turn-of-the-century prison , as jolie's character , slated for a dawn execution , tells her lurid tale to a priest who appears desperately horny .  the freshman writing class tone is quickly established when she says things like , " this is not a love story , it is a story about love . "  wary of local gold-diggers , cuban coffee dealer luis antonio vargas ( banderas ) makes arrangements to secure a mail order bride from america , listing himself as a mere clerk to dissuade foreign gold-diggers .  a practical man , luis chooses a frumpy looking lady , hoping she will be a loyal mate able to provide him with children .  imagine his surprise when his fianc ? e , julia russell ( jolie ) , turns out to be infinitely more attractive than the woman in the photo .  julia explains that she sent a different woman's image because she didn't want to be selected solely for her pretty face .  luis then confesses his deception , leading julie to state , with great significance , " we have something in common , we are both not to trusted . "  after their wedding , luis and julia retire for a glorious night of carefully choreographed lovemaking , with their bodies positioned to display her breasts and his bottom as erotically as possible .  jolie and banderas are attractive people and watching them naked is fun , although the filmmakers' insistence on using one of banderas' legs to cover jolie's crotch makes it look like he's trying to climb her .  luis , the stupidest man who ever lived , immediately instructs the bank to make his personal and business accounts available to julia , despite the fact that she seems nothing like the woman with whom he corresponded .  his blissful ignorance continues as the warning signs mount up .  luis must force julia to write to her sister emily , who is frantic over her lack of communication .  shortly after julia complains about the chirping of a pet bird , it is found on the floor of its cage with a broken neck .  finally , when she cleans out his accounts and disappears , luis begins to suspect that something might be wrong .  incidentally , if you're afraid i'm giving too much away , rest assured that all of this happens in the first 30 minutes of the movie , leaving plenty of time for numerous dopey plot twists , a great deal of operatic acting and more footage of her tits and his ass .  along the way , private detective walter downs ( played by thomas jane , who was terrific as mickey mantle in the hbo movie " 61 * " ) turns up , hired by the frumpy woman's sister to find out what happened to the real julia .  luis is also eager for the detective to track down the con artist , having decided that if he can't have her , he will kill her .  oh , the pathos of it all .  the cast appears to recognize the trashiness of the story , adjusting their performances accordingly .  banderas is suitably impassioned , while jolie alternates between vamping and pouting ( and with those lips , she can really pout ) .  as for thomas jane , he starts off acting suspicious and cagey , then accelerates to a snidely whiplash level of nastiness .  his most startling moment comes when , to prove his power to humiliate , he forces luis against a wall , verbally taunts him while rubbing his cheeks against those of luis and then finishes establishing his dominance with a full-on kiss .  if anyone ever questions the difference between sex and rape , show them this chilling scene .  and if anyone ever questions the difference between real drama and a laughable potboiler , show them " original sin . " 
pos@ capsule : the verma family is having a wedding and all the relatives will come for the multi-day festivities .  mira nair's film is pleasant enough with a little human drama , a few family secrets , some sadness and some happiness .  you have seen it all before , but perhaps not from india .  the photography is colorful and the music is very agreeable .   , low +2 ( -4 to +4 )  mira nair previously directed salaam bombay and mississippi masala .  her newest film , written by sabrina dhawan , is very similar to previous films like betsy's wedding but it is set in new delhi .  a wealthy family is having a wedding .  an indian wedding is a multi-day affair as much a family reunion as a nuptial .  even more than in the us , it is an excuse for a lavish and extravagant family get-together .  the film shows us what the family does together and at the same time follows several family members' individual story lines .  aditi verma is marrying hemant , an indian engineer working in the us .  she had previously had a relationship with vikram , her supervisor .  latit , her father ( played by naseeruddin shah ) , is juggling many problems , not the least of which is worrying about the caterer has hired pk dubey .  dubey is a rather eccentric man with a taste for eating the marigolds he uses for decoration .  even dubey will soon be romantically entangled when he becomes interested in alice , one of the family servants .  several family members arrive giving rise to several plotlines involving sex , family secrets , or both .  there are heartbreaks and there are people falling in love .  some of the subjects covered are probably near taboo for indian films .  western audiences will appreciate a look at unfamiliar indian customs like women painting their hands with henna .  on the other hand it was not clear ( to me at least ) if scenes like the family singing together are typical of indian culture or if they are a convention of indian musical films .  this seems a particularly westernized family with the father wearing american designer sweaters and the family speaking mostly english .  the latter will , however , help with an international release .  sabrina dhawan's screenplay is vibrant with witty dialog .  we have seen films with plotting very much like this , but the indian setting makes a great deal of difference .  director mira nair calls the film an affirmation of life .  i rate it a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
neg@ everything in the phantom you have seen many times before and there is nothing new presented here .  wincer displays absolutely no skill in setting up an exciting action sequence .  billy zane is wooden as the hero .  kristy swanson is given very little to do , and does very little with it .  treat williams , looking like rhett butler but sounding like mickey mouse , is one of the worst villains i have ever seen in a movie .  only catherine zeta jones , as one of williams cohorts turns in a good performance .  she has energy and spunk , which the movie needed much more of .  oh yeah , the phantom also has a secret identity but this is so poorly played out you won't even care .  about the only things i can recommend are a good performance by jones , and some colorful scenery .  however , if youre looking for a fun family movie , go watch the underrated flipper .  this is not a good movie . 
pos@ luckily , some people got starship troopers .  some people knew it was supposed to be silly .  for those of you who didn't , how could you miss it ?  from the very beginning , when we see an interactive internet-like promotional video for the armed forces of the future , it should be obvious this film is to be taken lightly .  i guess without blatant one-liners and home alone style slapstick , some people just don't recognize such goofy humor .  such a dry approach to such intentionally campy humor must have left some disillusioned .  first thing to do before seeing this movie - lighten up .  meet the equivalent of " beverly hills 90210 " meets " mighty morphin power rangers " .  four close friends are now graduating high school and are ready to join the armed forces , which , in the future , means fighting for the whole galaxy and not just your country .  johnny rico ( casper van dien ) is ready to join the infantry , mostly because his girlfriend carmen ibanez ( denise richards ) has enlisted to be a pilot .  dizzy flores ( dina meyer ) has enlisted as a trooper , and it's possible she's joining merely to follow rico , whom she's always had eyes for .  if you saw these three on the street , you'd automatically start searching for the fashion designers and photographers , for never has a movie's cast looked so much like the cut-out cover of " seventeen " magazine .  the lone non-supermodel , carl jenkins ( played by doogie howser himself , neil patrick harris ) is the brainiac who gets into the military intelligence division , the top secret department that pretty much leaves doogie - er , carl out of the picture .   ( good call - now we can put all our drooling efforts into only the most deserving of characters ) .  right off the bat , rico becomes the star of the show , far surpassing all the other soldiers and becoming squadron leader in a short period of time .  but a horrific accident during a standard training exercise ( which follows all to closely to his breakup with carmen ) leaves rico ready to call it quits .  with his bags packed and his civilian clothes back on , johnny is ready to walk off base and catch the next flight home .  well sorry , rico suave , but there's no place like home , especially after gigantic alien insects have destroyed it .  that's right , the planet is being attacked by a colony of arachnid-like alien beings that a can of raid just isn't going to destroy .  with a sudden change of heart ( and clothes ) , rico is back in the game , following his fellow starship troopers off to fight a mean group of daddy long legs .  what starship troopers really is , is a spoof of all that it even remotely touches on - the soap opera like love affairs of high school , the love for sci-fi and thirst for gore shared by this same age group , etc . nothing is taken seriously .  it's almost as much a satire on young adults as clueless , but with its sly and futuristic approach , it's not as recognizably so .  it's a spoof so subtle that many won't recognize the spoofery .  if you deem this as sci-fi/action , you're wrong .  it's sci-fi/action/comedy , with the comedy being on the level of such cult favorites as evil dead 2 . starship troopers just may be on the road to cult status as well .  gore is a factor heavily brought up in reviews of this film , but the gore , too , is meant to be cheesy .  yes , it's graphic , but it's also brutally phony , and that's what makes it such great fun to watch .  not since the old " mr . bill " skits on " saturday night live " has torture and mutilation been such a joy to watch .  people were laughing out loud every time a body was severed in half or a head was viciously decapitated .  perhaps it brings back fond memories of the severities we inflicted upon our sisters' barbie dolls as young children .  with the actors resembling ken and barbie so closely , it's a good chance this is the case , whether we're fully aware of it or not .  starship troopers has it's slow parts , but it's truly an alternative to your typical sci-fi/action flick or lame juvenile comedy .  aside from the intentionally cheesy gore , the special effects are quite astounding .  when the spaceship passes a meteor , it's quite an awesome spectacle , visually crisp and captivating .  if you're looking for brainless fun , this is the epitome of your search .  a beautiful cast , awesome special effects , fast-paced action , campy acting , and a whole lot of gore .  this is brainless heaven .  just remember not to think . 
neg@  " we are grateful that we have the songs of grace chan to comfort us . "  starring lee kang-sheng , yang kuei-mei directed by tsai ming-liang written by tsai and yang ping-ying cinematography by liao peng-jung  taiwan , 24/12/99 .  the millenium approaches .  an incessant downpour batters an unnamed city .  sectors of the city are being sealed , quarantined due to the onset of a mysterious virus .  the virus causes people to act like insects : they crawl about on all fours , hide from bright lights , huddle in damp corners .  the water supply to the quarantined zones will be cut off in a week's time .  residents are advised to evacuate the area , asap .  this premise--kafka by way of cronenberg--is the background for the hole , which could have been a great movie , but , sadly , ends up as a waste of good ideas .  the quick sketch above suggests a dark , absurd , hallucinatory near-future parable of life in the late 20th century ; in execution , however , it is nothing like that .  the virus , the evacuation , the visual possiblities of the deluge : these are all relegated to the background .  instead , the hole focuses on the lives--for want of a better word--of a man ( lee kang-sheng ) and a woman ( yang kuei-mei ) who live in the same apartment building , and who have no personalities .  the entire movie taks place in settings that are uniformly ugly and sterile : the charmless rooms and corridors of a post-industrial apartment complex , photographed to look as dim and dingy as possible .  it's a vivid setting , but an unappealing one , especially with the monotonous hiss of falling rain and the gurgle of drainage pipes in the background .  the man lives in the apartment directly above the woman's .  one day , a repairman investigating a leak leaves a small hole in the floor of the man's living room , opening into the ceiling of the woman's living room .  this hole--symbol of the solitary opening in the character's lonely , compartmented lives--allows them to interact in unusual ( and mostly non-verbal ) ways .  example : the man , suffering from the onset of the virus ( or so i assume--everything is obscure in this movie ) vomits through the hole .  the woman , wandering around in the dark , accidentally puts her hand on his vomit , and then cleans it up .  this is what passes for meaningful communication .  and they say romance is dead .  much of the film does not even focus on their interactions , such as they are .  there is almost no dialogue and we learn next to nothing about these people .  they are ciphers .  instead , we are treated to long takes in which we witness their miserable lives ; we watch , for instance , as the woman boils some water , pours it onto some noodles , then eats the noodles .   ( this is as fascinating as it sounds . )  offered as counterpoint--or perhaps relief--to these dreary sequences are a series of musical numbers , fantasies in which the woman lip-synchs to pop songs by grace chan ( popular , so i'm told , in 1950s' china ) .  she prances around in grimy hallways and grungy stairwells , incronguously lit by cheerfully bright spotlights .  sometimes , in these fantasies , she is joined by the man .  these scenes are presumably intended to be bright and fanciful , sharply contrasting the dreariness of reality , but they fail .  when the man and the woman dance , it seems half-hearted and listless .  astaire and rogers this is not .  even in imagination , these people are numb , weary , boring .  the hole is part of the 'collection 2000' series , a group of films commissioned by french tv station la sept arte on the subject of the millenium .  others include canada's last night , brazil's midnight , and american hal hartley's the book of life .  the book of life is the only other one that i have seen , and it is infinitely superior to the taiwanese entry .  witty , energetic , humane , it makes the the hole seem ( ahem ) empty .  american movies with nothing to say try to disguise their lack of content with flashy movements , quick cuts , superficial emotions .  foreign movies with nothing to say do what the hole does : they point the camera at something of minimal interest for unbelievably long periods of time , and call it art .  the hole is self-evidently a film about alienation , and perhaps director tsai ming-liang wants the audience to share in his characters' alienation .  if so , he succeeds .  perhaps it is a challenge : he dares us to enjoy this movie , despite his best attempts to ensure that we don't .  if it was a challenge , i wasn't up for it . 
pos@ more than forty years ago , the " sword and sandals " genre of historical epic ruled the box office .  during the 1950's hollywood sought to give audiences a reason to turn off their televisions and go out to the movies by offering the grand spectacle of the roman empire in cinemascope .   " ben-hur . "   " cleopatra . "   " the robe . "   " sparticus . "   " the fall of the roman empire . "   " quo vadis . "  sometimes brilliant , sometimes campy , the roman epic was the technicolor funeral pyre of classic hollywood .  since then , epics have appeared infrequently ( " the last emperor , " " braveheart " ) and some of the best have been small-screen affairs produced in the 1970's ( " roots , " " shogun " ) .  yet , the phrase " we who are about to die salute you " has been absent until now .   " gladiator " begins in germania in a . d . 180 .  roman general maximus ( russell crowe ) has conquered yet another group of barbarians for his emperor marcus aurelius ( richard harris ) , and he is eager to retire to his plantation in spain where his wife and son are waiting .  however , the emperor is worried that his decadent weakling son commodus ( joaquin phoenix ) will prove a poor successor , so he wants to make maximus his heir as a transition toward rome becoming a republic again .  when commodus hears the plan , he strangles his father and orders maximus and his family murdered .  maximus escapes from the executioners , but he arrives home too late to save his wife and son .  a caravan of slavers pick up the wounded hero and carry him off to north africa .   ( why the caravan happened to be cruising by maximus' place is never explained . )  an african named juba ( djimon hounsou ) treats maximus' wounds .  proximo ( oliver reed ) , a gladiator who won his freedom , purchases maximus and juba as fodder for the arena .  of course , maximus proves as able a gladiator as he was a soldier , and his fame spreads .  when commodus reopens the coliseum , proximo brings his troupe of warriors to rome to compete .  our hero wins the hearts and minds of the cheering crowds and finds that he has an ally in commodus' sister lucilla ( connie nielsen ) .  the similarities to " braveheart " are obvious : an evil king , a determined warrior seeking revenge for his murdered family , the aid of a lovestruck princess .  also , like mel gibson's epic , " gladiator " has a primarily visceral appeal and is driven forward by the hero's anger .  it's a simple tale of good versus evil .  maximus has all the manly virtues : nobility of purpose , courage in battle , loyalty to king and country , physical stamina , and devotion to family .  commodus is his opposite in every way : a sniveling , selfish coward who is intended to disgust the audience .  the opening night crowd in my theater was about 70% male , and that seems appropriate .   " gladiator " is a guy movie ( would the opposite of a " chick flick " be a " dick flick " ? ) .  there's much pumping of testosterone and chopping off of body parts in gruesome battle sequences .   ( those easily offended by gore should stay away . )  lucilla is the only female character , and what sparks there are between her and maximus are dampened by his devotion to his dead wife .  joaquin phoenix gives an astounding performance .  in the scene where commodus kills his father , phoenix shows the pain of a son who has never had his father's love or pride .  throughout the picture , phoenix manages to give depth to a character who's scripted as a caricature of evil .  i've been a russell crowe fan since " romper stomper . "  this role doesn't offer him the complexities of his parts in " l .  a . confidential " and " the insider " -- essentially his job is to grunt heroically -- but his voice , which has a richard burton resonance textured by a clint eastwood rasp , is perfect for the genre .  the late oliver reed gave us the best work of his career in his last role .  i hope it will be rewarded with an oscar .  my only major quibble with " gladiator " is its stylized look .  several scenes are tinted .  we've seen a lot of the tinted look lately , particularly in " payback " and " the matrix . "  i don't get the appeal of the style , which makes feature films look like tv ads .  in " payback " it was merely annoying , but in " gladiator " it bleaches the color out of the grand spectacles that are the raison d'etre of the roman epic .   ( perhaps it's meant to gloss over the imperfections of the computer-generated shots . )  also , the battle scenes are filmed in a strange herky jerky style that seems to be slo mo and fast forward simultaneously .   ( it reminds me of the way the flash runs in the comic books , leaving a half-blurred trail of images of himself behind . )  with a more realistic look , " gladiator " could be even more satisfying than " braveheart " because it has a tighter script and a more fulfilling conclusion .  bottom line : a rousing action film enriched by fine performances but tarnished by stylistic choices . 
neg@ well , what are you going to expect ?  it's a movie about a big snake that eats people .  that's what i should have been thinking when i viewed this film , because maybe then i would have enjoyed myself more .  instead , i ended up wishing a giant snake would come along and eat me , too .  anaconda is about a documentary film crew sailing down a south american river .  led by anthropologists dr . steven cale ( eric stolz ) and terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) , the crew is attempting to locate a lost tribe of natives .  along the way , they find poacher paul sarone ( jon voight ) , and become unwillingly embroiled in his quest to capture the elusive anaconda .  to simply say that this is the world's largest snake wouldn't be doing it justice , since the anaconda in this movie is at least two feet wide .  if this isn't a good reason to avoid picking up hitchhikers , i don't know what is .  at the beginning of anaconda , we find that flores and cale have had some kind of relationship in the past , but that seems to be more or less over now .  i expected that fact to play a key part somewhere down the line , but it ended up being a set-up for nothing .  cale chokes on a deadly wasp ( don't ask me how that happens - i don't know ) and is put out of action , relegated to being the person whom the rest of the film crew must get back to civilization for medical help .  this minimally helps to add a sense of urgency for the plot , since this goal now comes in direct conflict with sarone's plan to capture the snake .  however , this is negated by the fact that cale seems to get better by himself about halfway through the film , and in any event still results in zero payoff from the relationship angle .  most bad characters are either annoying or stupid .  in this movie , they're both .  since this description applies to all the characters except sarone , it's hard to find someone to root for .  you're supposed to back the good guys , but you really end up cheering for sarone because he's smarter than everyone else .  or maybe he's just not as dumb as everyone else .  at times , i almost found myself rooting for the snake .  there are no standout performances here .  everyone seems to be reciting lines written for stock characters .  even voight appears to be doing his best impression of christopher walken for some reason .  no matter , as in most monster movies , the snake is supposed to be the real star anyway .  in most of the scenes , the snake is computer generated , and the effects crew did a decent job of making it look real .  however , the realism is thrown off by some pretty unrealistic occurrences .  sometimes , for example , the snake just moves too fast .  it catches a guy jumping off of a waterfall , for crying out loud .  then there's another scene where the snake eats one of the characters , and we see the snake's skin drawn so tightly over its prey that we can see the victim's pained expression from within the snake's belly .  absolutely ridiculous .  a testimony to the film's bad direction is the inclusion of a scene early on the in the film , where we get to see just how dangerous the mighty anaconda is .  in a scene totally unrelated to anything else , we are witness to the big snake winning a showdown with a panther .  the anaconda wraps itself around the powerful feline as if it were a stuffed animal and squeezes it so hard , one of the panther's eyeballs pops out .  eeeewwwww .  above and beyond the sick factor , however , this scene surprised me because it actually showed the face of the snake before a quarter of the movie had even passed .  in films like these , a sense of mystery surrounding the monster must be maintained .  if the characters are reacting to something they fear more than see , we as an audience must experience that feeling along with them .  to show us the monster early on is to let us in on something the characters don't know about , and therefore allow us to get used to the danger before the pivotal moment when man and beast have their climactic showdown .  in a case like that , the showdown just ends up being a letdown .  when i saw the snake for the first time , i decided to give the film the benefit of the doubt and assume that the snake i saw wasn't the real danger .  this one was just a decoy , and there was actually a bigger snake waiting to make its appearance just when everyone thought they were safe .  no such luck .  okay , maybe anaconda is actually a decoy , and there's really a better movie waiting to make its debut . 
pos@ deep rising is one of " those " movies .  the kind of movie which serves no purpose except to entertain us .  it does not ask us to think about important questions like life on other planets or the possibility that there is no god . . . screw that , it says boldly , let's see some computer generated monsters rip into , decapitate and generally cause irreparable booboos to a bunch of little known actors .  heh !  them wacky monsters , gotta love 'em .  of course , since we can rent about a thousand b movies with the same kind of story , hollywood must give that little extra " oumph " to get people in theaters .  that is where deep rising fails , which is a good thing .  confused ?  let me explain :  despite all them flashy effects and big explosions , deep rising is still , at heart , a good 'ol b movie .  luckily , it's a very good b movie .  the worst cliches in movie history are a b movie's bread and butter .  therefore , things that would destroy a serious movie actually help us have a good time while watching a movie of lower calibre .  of course we know there's a big slimy creature behind that door , that one person will wander off to be picked off by said monster and we always know which persons or person will make it out alive .  we just don't know when or how horrible it will be .  i went to see deep rising with my expections low and my tolerance for bad dialogue high .  imagine my surprise when i discover that deep rising is actually , well , pretty darn funny at times .  a funny b movie ?  well , that's new .  these flicks are not supposed to make us laugh .   ( except for a few unintended laughs once a while . )  and before you know it , treat williams , wes studi and famke jansen appear on the big screen .  hey ! i know them guys ( and gal ) from a couple of other movies .  cool .  familiar faces .  so far so good .  our man treat is the hero , he'll live .  wes is a staple of b movies , he is the token victim .  we know he'll buy the farm but he will take a few creeps with him on the way out .  famke is the babe , 'nuff said .  there is also a guy with glasses ( the guy with glasses always dies ) a black person ( b movie buffs know that the black guy always dies , never fails ) and a very funny , nerdy guy .   ( ah !  comic relief .  how can we possibly explain having to kill him . . . let  him live . )  after the first fifteen minutes i felt right at home .  i know who to root for and who i need to boo too and a gum to chew .   ( please kill me . )  suffice it to say that for the next hour and a half i jumped out of my seat a few times , went " ewwww " about a dozen times and nearly had an orgasm over all the explosions and firepower our heroes were packing .  i'm a man , we nottice these things .  all in all , i'd recommend deep rising if you are looking for a good time and care to leave your brain at the door . . . but  bring your sense of humor and excitement in with you .  the acting is decent , the effects top rate .  how to best describe it ?  put together the jet ski scene from hard rain , the bug attacks from starship troopers , a couple of james bond like stunts and all those scenes from friday the thirteenth and freddy where you keep screaming " don't go there , he's behind you " and you end up with deep rising .  for creepy crawly goodness , tight t-shirts , major firepower and the need to go to the bathroom every fifteen minutes from seing all that water . 
neg@ ugh . that about sums this movie up .  just , ugh .  the original godzilla movies are somewhat of a cult classic , and when reviewing the previous films , each film had a certain degree of intelligence .  and that was the reason they found such an enviable cult following ; in spite of bad special effects , horrible dubbing , and a man in a lizard suit , they maintained a certain degree of . . . how to put this ? . . .  dignity ?  not quite the word i'm looking for .  you understand , right ?  and in 50 years , godzilla has maintained that degree of 'whatever' .  leave it to america to screw the whole thing up .  >from the 'geniuses' that brought us " independece day " , arguably the worst sci-fi movie of all time , to ruin whatever reputation godzilla had .  while they do bring us eye-popping special effects that will amaze you , they lost what was at the center of all the original godzilla movies -- a storyline .  summing up the movie is simple .  heck , i can do it in one sentence : giant lizard attacks a giant city and a bunch of nobodies stop it .  simple as that .  matthew broderick stumbles over his lines , and it's hard to picture hank azaria in any role besides his classic dog-walking character on the television show " mad about you " .  the dialogue seems to be improvized , almost as if there was no rehearsel done at all .  i can see the scene on the set right now .   " all right !  we spent all of this money making big special effects , and we've gotta get this movie out by summer or it's going to bomb in our faces .  so , you actors just say what ever comes to the top of your head , all right ?  make up something , m'kay ?  good .  roll film ! ! "  the special effects are enough to keep you interested through one viewing , and some of the cinemtography is well-done ( the scene with the black umbrellas comes to mind ) .  still , an hour into it , you will become antsy , wondering how long they can drag it out .  and drag it out they do ! !  i have to laugh .  the slogan for the film is , " size does matter " .  i think they cut this too short .  it should read , " size does matter .  acting does not . " 
pos@ warning ! : may contain some mild spoilers and offensive material .  rated : r ( ! ) for sexual content , crude and sexual humor , and some nudity . .   ( a mild r rating )  starring : rob schneider , oded fehr , eddie griffin , arija bareikis , amy poehler , norm mcdonald .  running time : 88 minutes   " deuce bigalow : male gigolo " is simply a hilarious good-natured comedy that may offend some , but underneath all it's crude humor and sexual content is a sweet little love story that is surprisingly involving .  it isn't any kind of cinematic classic , but it's a very very funny comedy that keeps us entertained until the end credits which themselves are funny too .  it has all it needs to be a breezy entertaining comedy : the acting is up to pace and some of the performances quite funny , the screenplay is witty and smart , and the whole story is sweet and cute .  deuce bigalow ( rob schneider ) is your typically average guy : he cleans fish tanks for a living and gets an average of 10 bucks for it .  though one might call him a loser , deuce gets a job he would never thought he would get .  he gets to clean the tank for a male gigolo ( oded fehr ) and gets offered to watch over his place while he goes on a trip .  trying to be like him he hangs upside down from a pole and accidentally pushes off the fishtank and burns his cabinets .  the thing is now he has to try and find $6 , 000 dollars in three weeks to make sure everything looks right again .  so he decides to go " man-whoring " and to his luck gets the oddest people on earth : an over-weight woman who decidedly wants to eat everything in site , a woman with narcolepsy who sleeps all the time , a woman who has sudden screaming outbursts , and a woman he can't stop thinking about .  he charges $10 but he is willing to negotiate .  from now on he is considered deuce bigalow : male gigolo .  with non-stop laughs an a abundence of crude humor " deuce bigalow : male gigolo " is sometimes like last years hit " there's something about mary " that is offensive but very funny .  the screenplay by harris goldberg and rob schneider himself is a smart , clever and witty screenplay that seems to have been written with care to make is so hilariously funny .  the characters in the film are all actually likable especially " jabba lady " with her big body but soft heart .  there are actually times in the movie where i fell out of my chair laughing so hard that my stomach was killing me .  even though i thought " toy story 2 " and " being john malkovich " were the funniest of the year " deuce bigalow " follows right behind them .  the directing by mike mitchell is fantastic and shows he took time on the film .  rob schneider gives a surprisingly endearing performance and when his romance develops with one of his customers kate ( arija bareikis ) it is a sweet romance that we get involved in and actually like being involved in it .   " deuce bigalow " is a good-natured film worth all the merit it can get .  its not a classic or a masterpiece , it's just a comedy that we don't feel bad about watching .  sure it may come off as offensive and may come off as dumb sometimes , but you cannot deny that it isn't funny .   " deuce bigalow : male gigolo " is no disappointment .  its a fast paced , entertaining sweet and hilarious comedy that may be destined to become a cult classic .  fans of schneider will not be disappointed and fans of crude but nice comedies will not either .  for some reason the film garnered an r rating but with no " f words " or extensive use of sexual content or explicit nudity i was really wondering why the film was r . a mild r to put it to the least , but even if your under 17 or above at least 13 this film is good enough for you to see .  don't try to be one of those people who make so much of a film that they do not like it , just sit back , laugh and enjoy the movie . 
neg@ boy , what a great movie ! !  keanu reeves and morgan freeman acting together , the director of the fugitive ( andrew davis ) back again to give us another thriller , and the beautiful rachel stealing beauty weisz thrown in to boot .  how could this not be a blockbuster ?  all die-hard keanu reeves fans , read on .  ol " much ado about nothing " plays eddie kasalivich , a machinist studying at the university of chicago .  to help pay for the rent , he takes on this job making the machinery for a hydrogen project being conducted by the university .  by happy coincidence , he also happens to stumble on the solution to the final problem and thus is the only one who knows the key to performing this feat of miracle physics .  this project holds great promise : taking hydrogen from water and giving out more energy than is put in .  a potential solution to the earth's energy problems without the pollution cost .  surely nobody could have any problems with that ?  morgan freeman is paul shannon , the project's sponsor .  he works for a very powerful organization that disagrees with the paternal project leader as to how quickly technology should be released to the public .  he figures the world will disintegrate into anarchy if the results of the project are released too quickly .  so he murders the project leader , blows up the project ( great but short scene here , sort of like a mini id4 city-devastation thing ) and tries to simulate the experiment at some other hi-tech hush-hush location .  unfortunately , our intrepid machinist and an english physicist ( weisz ) manage to get away and now follows a fugitive-like chase using a not too dissimilar rehash of that movie script .  this movie is just dying for a comparison with " the fugitive " .  both movies use chicago as the main city and since the place doesn't change much , i guess we can't really blame the setting for the paucity of atmosphere .  the trouble here is that where the fugitive had harrison ford and tommy lee jones , chain reaction only has keanu reeves and fred ward .  credit to them , but we aren't really given much of a chance to empathise with the characters .  where ford was able to work within the confines of the movie to evoke sympathy , eddie kasalivich just doesn9t seem very believeable and reeves' character is never given the time to develop .  it might have been a better investment in film to give the characters more depth and spend less time on the chase sequences , which frankly , get quite boring after a while .  harrison ford was " the man against the world . "  he was alone in a world where he didn't know who to trust and it came across real well .  in chain reaction , keanu reeves isn't alone .  now that would be fine if the fleeing couple had some chemistry and could really portray some paranoia , vulnerability and confusion .  we don't get this .  we get him thinking he's still in speed , only now our sandra bullock has an english accent , probably doesn't drive a bus , and hardly contributes anything to the movie .  the producers here probably thought , " hey , what if keanu and rachel don't hit it off too well ?  let's rope in that morgan to help us out . "  well , keanu and rachel didn't hit it off well on the screen , and most unfortunately , morgan freeman doesn't help much either .  the only thing we come to really know of paul shannon is that he always has a full load of cigars in his cigar holder .  it's not really his fault .  once again , andrew davis just doesn't take the time to build his characters .  someone must have convinced him that this time round , cinema dollars are best earned by making the movie run like a headless chicken .  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
pos@ in , " the muse " albert brooks plays steven phillips , a hollywood screenwriter who after winning a humanitarian award for his work is dumped by his studio .  they claim that he's lost his edge and his agent is quick to agree with them .  he knows that he needs to write something fresh and original and quick or else his career will be over .  so he turns to his " best " friend , jack ( jeff bridges ) another screenwriter who's enjoyed success after success .  on the way over to jack's house steven sees jack helping an attractive woman ( sharon stone ) into a cab and begins to think : is he having an affair ?  when confronted , jack relunctently tells him that this mystery woman is , in fact , a muse , a mythological figure who is believed to have inspired all creativity , and has helped him garner his success .   " she doesn't do any actual writing , " he is told , " but inspires you . "  steven is excited by what he's hearing and asks jack to call her up to see if she'll take steven on as a new client .  jack arranges a meeting between the two and suggests that steven bring her a present , preferably something from tiffany's .  after the meeting the muse , sarah decides to take on steven , but at a price : she wants a suite at the four seasons and wants steven to perform odd tasks for her ( like bringing her salads in the middle of the night . )  steven's wife ( andy macdowell ) sees him at a food store and questions him about why he has tampons in his wagon .  steven confesses everything and , although at first suspicious , she later allows sarah to move into their guest room and eventually into their life .  the only question for steven is if the muse is worth all the trouble he's going through for her .  and that's a question only time will tell .   " the muse " is albert brooks' sixth film as writer/director/actor ( he co-wrote with monica johnson ) and although it's a good movie it's not up to the level of his best works ( " defending your life " and " mother " ) .  the problem lies in the script , and for a movie that relies on its dialogue for its humor , there aren't nearly as many laughs as they are chuckles despite a few good one-liners .  it has a great premise but doesn't deliver up to it's full potential .  but , i like albert brooks in this film and i think that we can all identify with steven phillips a little bit .  he may whine and complain , but he just wants to support his family and be happy .  and i like sharon stone in this movie too ; it's a nice change of pace for her .  and i also enjoyed the cameos featuring the likes of rob reiner , james cameron and martin scorsese .  and although " the muse " doesn't have as much to say about hollywood as robert altman's " the player " i still left the theater feeling good .  and that's something i wish i got out of more movies . 
neg@ okay , bear with me y'all , cause first off i have to get this off my chest :  what the hell is up with that damn crab ? ? ?  whew . okay .  cause that same clip shown over and over again was beginning to get on my nerves towards the end , as cute as the crab maybe .  even i know that you need more footage than * that * .  and that wasn't the only thing getting on my nerves .  the cutesy gimmicks , saccharine sweet score / soundtrack and the pretty young faces of sarah michelle gellar ( as amanda ) and sean patrick flannery ( as tom ) might have held some appeal during , oh , say the first 10 minutes of the movie .  at first the movie moves along at a quick , interesting pace .  it is speedily established that something magical is about to happen to amanda when she encounters a totally random fairy godfather type person on the street , whose aforementioned crab follows her everywhere and just * doesn't * die .  a ridiculous concept , yes , but at this point i'm willing to accept it because i'm willing to accept that this is how amanda's life is changed , how her powers are received .  later on , the movie can't seem to decide whether these powers come from this fairy godfather or from amanda falling in with tom .  and this is why the clips of the crab were annoying ; they weren't just repetitive , they were out of place and unnecessary .  the plot stumbles along at an uneven speed , sometimes dwelling too long on a particular development ( amanda suddenly becoming a great chef , her falling in love with tom , etc . ) , sometimes moving on too quickly for its own good .  some places the plot just doesn't make sense , sometimes it's way too contrived ( the crab bit , for example ) , and sometimes too corny ( peaches emitting dry ice .  can't beat that ) .  all in all the plot seemed fragmented , unconnected .  not romantic at all , and only funny in some places .  so , okay , do the magic powers come from the crab ?  or the fairy godfather ?  she can * float * now too ?  and all of a sudden , instead of just making dry ice come out of peaches , she can put her emotions into her food ?  tom all of a sudden just accepts amanda's " witchcraft " in the end ?  would people really dine in a restaurant that resembles life after death in tupac's video ?  what the hell is up with that damn crab ?  it is unfortunate , because i liked the basic premise of the movie , until it became too fantastical and tiresome .  the film seemed to skirt around a serious theme or at least * a * theme for a while , but towards the end it resolved to show us long flashback clips and 5 minutes of people crying at their tables .  the humor was good in some places ( nolan gets the funniest bits , including that incomprehensible , totally random thing with the dolls ) .  gellar and flannery are qualified actors , and gellar has a particular charm , but i much prefer her playing the saucy buffy ( or even annette in the upcoming " cruel intentions " ) than this sorry excuse for a character .  it's almost funny sometimes to see these two trying so hard to make the dialogue sound better than it is , or trying to make the relationship seem more plausible .  the supporting character nolan was a highlight , though he reminded me a bit of kevin in " you've got mail " ( see footnotes ) .  and , as always , typical of a chick flick / romantic comedy , there's a seemingly endless romantic soundtrack in the background , cued up at all the right places .  this sort of got on the nerves after a while , too .   " simply irresistible " is not hard to understand , light , funny in some places , and generally disappointing because it can't draw the line between romance and protracted sap , between humor and tired slapstick .  and how could i refrain from making a pun ?   .   .   .   " simply irresistible " is all too easy to resist .   ( first viewing , 2/6/99 )   * did anyone else think this was a tad bit similar to " you've got mail " ( or " the shop around the corner " ) ?  business rivals fall in love .  female counterpart's business is in danger of being shut down .  female as mother- like figure guiding her .  the annoying , hysterical ex-girlfriends .   * i _really_ like sarah michelle gellar's wardrobe . 
pos@ rated : r for strong language , sexual dialogue , drug use , crude humor , violence and brief nudity .  starring : ben affleck , matt damon , linda fiorentino , salma hayek , alan rickman , chris rock , kevin smith , jason mewes , jason lee , george carlin , alanis morissette .  running time : 130 minutes  being a huge fan of kevin smith , i was expecting a lot out of his newest project 'dogma' .  it might just be kevin's best work to date .  it's very funny with smart and foul-mouthed dialogue while unexpectedly it has a serious undertone to it and besides going against god and jesus christ , it actually tries to tell people that there is such a thing rather than that there isn't .  in 1994 a little $27 , 000 movie premiered at sundance .  this little film was called 'clerks' and this little film went on to become a huge video sensation .  you really can't meet a person on this green earth who has not seen 'clerks' .  it was hailed by critics as one of the best movies of the year and soon a sequel is coming .  in 1995 kevin made another movie 'mallrats' that flopped horribly , thought it was not the best movie ever made it was a pretty good little flick .  it was panned by critics but hailed by audiences and in 1997 'chasing amy' came out and was kevin's biggest success to date .  now in 1999 we get a great little movie by the name of 'dogma' .  wow ! what a cast .  ok here is the plot in this movie : linda fiorentino plays a regular woman who works at an abortion clinic .  one day at her house metatron ( the voice of god ) appears at her house much to her surprise and tells her that she must stop two fallen angels ( matt damon and ben affleck ) from getting back into heaven by ways of a church .  ok now get this , she is told to find two prophets : one who talks a lot and one who doesn't , however she gets jay and silent bob instead ( who give us great performances ) .  now on her way to new jersey with jay and silent bob to try and stop the two angels the 13th apostle falls out of the sky ( chris rock ) and helps guide her to find these angels .  salma hayek plays serendipity who also helps her out along her way .  azrael ( jason lee ) who is a demon is trying to help the two angels out so that they can win .  bethany ( linda fiorentino ) has to now use the help of all these people to try and stop the angels before they cheat their way back to heaven leading to a violent and bloody end that will make you think twice about your faith .  what a movie , it is everything rolled into one : an offensive , offbeat , smart and sassy comedy that surprisingly has a great message at the end , and ends up being a feel-good movie .  who would have known kevin had such a soft side on him that could make us know that he is a faithful person himself .  now for those of you who get offended with this movie really should not take it to heart .  yes it may target the catholic community and bash them a lot , but it also seems to rather than go against god and heaven , it actually goes with god and kevin gives a message that there is a god .  this review may sound confusing at first but really the only way to understand it is to see this excellent movie .  kevin goes to new lengths in this hilarious comedy and gives us some great characters with not too much background or study and rather we start to know the characters as we watch the movie .  of course the best ( and funniest ) of them all is the only duo in history that have made me fall out of my chair laughing and that my friends are jay and silent bob .  probably the best characters in movies that i like .  the star-studded cast is amazing and has some other cameos by george carlin , jeanne garafolo and so may more that we start to lose track after a while .  the script was written by kevin smith with many f'words in there of course and a strong emphasis on sexual talk but he also seems to concentrate on what is important rather that what isn't and makes us laugh at the same time as we think .  chris rock gives a hilarious performance and gets into his character very well , with some classic lines .  linda fiorentino is just perfect for her role and makes us believe that she really is who she is .  of course jason mewes and kevin smith do a great job as jay and silent bob with some priceless lines from jay ( as well as silent bob ) .  alan rickman , jason lee , salma hayek round out the cast with matt damon and ben affleck in the starring roles .  being oscar winners for the classic 'good will hunting' they give great performances here again but matt damon seems just a little held back and to me did not give it all he could .  ben however was all out and got very much into his character as well as the story .  the movie's only big flaw is that it has a few unfunny lines and some slow parts to go along with it .  however the direction by kevin and the script by kevin as well as the priceless performance by many of the cast members , 'dogma' stands as a new classic and i think i can safely compare it to 'clerks' .  while being funny at times , in the end it becomes a serious movie with an important message that some may not agree with but can't deny it .  'dogma' will offend people , especially deeply religious people , but for those of you who are open minded and want to see some very funny material then this is the movie for you .  all kevin smith fans must see ! ! 
neg@ staring , george clooney , arnold schwarzenegger , chris o'donnell and uma thurman with alicia silverstone .  well to start this off i'd just like to say a couple things .  first is , i miss michael keaton , i miss tim burton and would much prefer to think that these last two batman films are all like a dallas dream sequence .  not even from the first film was batman really the 'star' though he was damn close in the first couple anyway .  in 'batman forever' and now in 'batman & robin' he's almost pushed to being a bit player .  i can't really say if clooney ( who regardless was better than kilmer ) was a very good batman or not .  he's given next to nothing to do at all , he might as well not have been there and it wouldn't have made much difference .  now , joel schumacher has said that he refuses to bend to the masses that have hated his films and cheered for the return of buton that he wont make batman brooding and dark .  fine , i mean granted 'batman returns' while being an awsome film was a bit to dark sometimes .  yet his bright neon , campy style is just killing anything this series meant to me .  i'm usually very easy on films .  i loved 'con air' and other films some critics have slammed .  granted that film really was paper thin , cliche ridden , except for one thing , it was fun .  there is virtually no fun in this film at all .  i couldn't have cared less .  it'll thrill the little ones as theres no violence really , none everyone comes out fine in the end like those old tv shows where it ends with everyone laughing .  schwarzenegger is awful , i mean really , really bad . . .  and this is coming from a regular fan of his work .  i love his movies most of the time and the basic reason is he never says much in any of them .  he talks all to often in this movie .  i would have much prefered to have seen patric stewart in the roll .  i believe to truely like a film you have to care about at least someone in a film .  i liked alfred but the reason behind it is a cheap shot . 
pos@ scarface , a remake of the 1932 film of the same name , is a very gripping and , as far as i know , a true-to-life story of how power and violence lead to corruption .  al pacino , as tony montana ( for whom the movie is named ) , also provides a brilliant performance as a cuban refugee who comes to america with less than nothing and becomes one of the most highly respected and feared drug lords in miami .  oliver stone also penned the screenplay in one of his earlier writing roles .  the film begins by disclosing the story of now fidel castro ordered thousands of cubans to set sail and head for the coasts of the united states .  many of these cubans had criminal records , such as tony montana , a cocky , fast-talking man who has the look of crime .  nearly right after his arrival in miami , tony is thrust into the gangster life when he participates in a cocaine buy that goes awry .  along with his friend and partner , manolo ( steven bauer ) , tony rises in the gangster ranks when he forms a friendship with frank lopez ( robert loggia ) , a high-roller in the organized crime field .  tony also begins to fall in love with elvira ( michelle pfeiffer ) , who at the time was frank's lover .  of course , sooner or later in this industry , betrayal and corruption amount into a force greater than anything else , and tony is one of the ones who fall victim to this force .  this is not before he becomes one of the most respected , and often feared , men in miami .  tony gets to the point where he cannot trust anyone , and everyone he knows basically feels the same way towards him .  no one can trust him , and basically , no one does .  scarface , although incredibly violent , is one of the best crime films of its time and stands out as another great performance for al pacino .  although he did not receive any recognition from the academy for his performance , it truly is a very good one .  in fact , his accent and facial movements alone are enough in my mind to win at least a nomination ( although he did get a golden globe nomination ) .  another element that stands out when someone mentions this film is the profanity .  a figure tagged to the film boasts that the word " fuck " and it's uses are uttered 206 times throughout the film , which is apparently a record .  the thing is , the vulgarity fits rather well with the movie .  as odd as it sounds , it's true .  in the end , scarface is a very powerful film that hits home hard . 
neg@ terrence malick made an excellent 90 minute film adaptation of james jones' world war ii novel .  unfortunately , he buried it within an overlong and overreaching 3-hour long pseudo-epic .  this is a shame because the film features an outstanding performance by nick nolte .  the best scene is when nick nolte's character , lt . col . tall , is forced to deal with the direct refusal by capt . staros ( elias koteas ) to execute an order .  nolte's reaction and transformation may be the best work of his career .  had terrence malick concentrated on the great performances of nolte and koteas as well as those by sean penn , woody harrelson , and john cusack , he could have made a truly great film .  instead , malick saddled the film with plodding pacing , unnecessary flashbacks , and a voice-over narration all designed to telegraph the great philosophical underpinnings of the story .  the narration was especially annoying as much of it sounded like very bad high school poetry .  with a lot of editing , the core story could be transformed into a truly classic war film .  hopefully , the dvd version of this film will feature options to suppress the narration , and perhaps will even provide for an alternate , shorter version of the film .  i give this film . 
pos@ for those of us who weren't yet born when the 1960's rock 'n' rolled around , monterey pop affords an affectionate glimpse of the music that influenced our parents to be hippies .  from otis redding to jimi hendrix , janis joplin to the mamas and the papas , and jefferson airplane to the who , this documentary is jam-packed with contagious energy .  but i give fair warning that i will reveal the ending , which does not do the rest of the film the justice it deserves .  shot in 1969 at an outdoor concert that precluded woodstock , the film defies the stereotype of the general population at the time .  sure , some have painted their faces and smoke joints , but d . a .  pennebaker ( the war room , moon over broadway ) surprisingly chooses to show a broad spectrum of the audience .  no matter who is watching , it all comes back to the talented musicians that stir your soul .  the excitement starts before the music even begins .  a young girl is cleaning thousands of seats and when asked why by an interviewer , she replies that she feels lucky to do so .  there are moments of organized craziness as john phillips , leader of the mamas and the papas and one of the concert organizers , tries to get in touch with dionne warwick .  and when one band is tuning up , a member remarks , " finally , a decent sound system ! "  you can tell just by watching these first few moments that this show isn't about vanity , it's about playing the music you love to those who have an appreciation for it , a two-way street .  this interaction between audience and performer continues throughout the film and becomes infectious to the audience .  it's impossible to tear your eyes away from janis joplin as she belts out her ballad about love being a ball and chain .  and while the lyrics to " wild thing " may not be all that complicated , watching jimi hendrix mime having sex with his guitar is as captivating as otis redding singing about love .  even if you don't recognize every band you see on stage , you can imagine being as enthralled by their work as the public sitting in those seats .  the only drawback to the film is the ending , which unfortunately i must reveal .  all the other bands , big names then and still today , got approximately 7 to 10 minutes of screen time .  in contrast , the last band on camera , a wholly forgettable one , gets an entire 18 minutes of screen time .  for a film that's only 78 minutes long , that's too large of a chunk , especially when previous acts are much more stimulating .  all in all , monterey pop is a precious , rare look at a time period that still holds sway over us .  the variety of music , as well as the beautifully shot performances , are easy to become immersed in .  if there was ever any question as to why most of these bands were so popular , this is quickly dispelled .  it's almost depressing to think that music this moving doesn't get made much anymore .  instead we're stuck with * nsync , the backstreet boys , and jennifer lopez , all of whom should have stuck with modeling . 
neg@ breakdown is an moderately entertaining , if underwhelming , thriller .  kurt russell and kathleen quinlan play couple jeff and amy taylor , taking the scenic route to california through redneck country .  however , while in the middle of nowhere , their jeep decides to break down , leaving them stranded .  a friendly truck driver , warren ( walsh ) , offers to give them a lift to town .  although jeff rejects the offer ( he wants to stay with his car ) , amy agrees , hops into warren's lorry , and promptly disappears .  jeff wonders where the hell she is , and when he later catches up with warren and warren says he has never seen amy in his life , the plot thickens and jeff goes on a chase to find his wife .  although comparisons can be made with this film to deliverance ( 1972 ) and the vanishing ( 1993 ) plot wise , the latter two are far superior character and script wise .  kurt russell is o . k as jeff , although he can seemingly only pull of one expression , which is angry .  throughout the whole film , he looks angry ( or just pissed off . )  quinlan is o . k again , but again she can only pull off one expression , which is looking dorky .  throughout the whole film , she looks dorky .  j . t walsh ( who , sadly , recently passed away ) is fine as warren ( who we soon find out is a kidnapper ) although his actual character is pretty weak , and not really menacing enough .  the supporting cast do their best aswell , with rex linn as a doubting sheriff , and the other kidnappers .  the story , written by first-timer jonathan mostow ( who also directs ) is o . k , if surprisingly familiar and sometimes extraordinarily stupid .  some of the things the characters do in this movie is beyond the bounds of idiocy .  there are some flaws with the plot also , as the characters do the complete opposite to logical ( presumably to keep the story 'exciting' ) and also the fact that the story just isn't strong enough to sustain the audience's attention .  the picture moves along very slowly also .  it almost threatens to drop dead .  the picture does pick up towards the end , but by then it's too late .  mostow directs the action sequences well enough , however .  the film doesn't really come to a satisfying conclusion , either .  the ending tries to be bleak , but just comes off annoying .  breakdown could of been a far more enjoyable picture had it had a stronger cast and director .  instead , it just turns out to be merely average .  a missed opportunity .  overall rating= review by david wilcock 
pos@ swashbuckling adventure that can be enjoyed by both children and adults .  steven spielberg may not have directed ( he only executive produced ) but his touch certainly is evident in this movie .  and he knows a money making winner when he sees one .  the mask of zorro has the hallmarks of a blockbuster : big action , funny comedy , and the pacing of a rollercoaster .  hopkins plays don diego de la vega , otherwise known as zorro .  a fighter for the people , he is eventually captured by don rafael montero ( stuart wilson ) , who also , unintentionally , kills his wife .  the film cuts to twenty years later , where vega still wants to montero dead .  however , he's far too old now , and trains up thief alejandro murrieta ( banderas ) to become the new zorro .  banderas motive ?  to avenge the death of his brother , who was killed at the hands of captain love ( matthew letscher ) who rather tastefully keeps the head in a jar , in one of the more graphic scenes in this family movie .  with the scene set , the movie goes on full blast , with sword fights a-plenty and witty one liners .  banderas and hopkins have a marvellous chemistry as the two zorro's , playing each other off with ease .  hopkins seems to come off a little better , but banderas does some excellent work .  as the bad guys , wilson and letscher seem one dimensional , but they go through the bad guy shtick in an above average way .  the audience does hate them , which can't be bad .  catherine zeta-jones also pops up as hopkins daughter , and although she provides little more than the usual female lead , she delivers a charming , but one note , performance .  the chemistry is excellent between banderas and jones .  there's a delightful little scene where banderas and jones have a sword fight , and every swipe an item of clothing gets slashed , until jones clothes fall off all together .  the director , fresh from the enjoyable goldeneye ( 1995 ) handles the film perfectly .  the action is well done and fast paced , the comedy put across well .  the cast help a lot , but the direction is still outstanding .  although the film is very long , the plot keeps chugging along , and there's barely a dull moment .  however , the film is a little over indulgent , and it could have been trimmed .  it manages to hold the attention , thankfully , and the adventure and charm holds right up to the last reel .  screenwriters john eskow , ted elliot and terry rosio have unfortunately written an cliched and one dimensional script .  although they've bought zorro up to date with big explosions and wild action , the plot itself is barely existent .  there's lots of little sub plots hanging around , but there's nothing substantial to bring them all together .  the main story seems to be the fact that rafael wants to 'buy' california using gold stolen from the guy he's buying the land off .  this sets up for a temple of doom type plot where we see peasants slave driven into getting the gold from little mines .  however , this doesn't seem to appear until nearly over a hour into the film , so the film is never quite sure where it's going .  in the end however , zorro provides action and comedy in spades .  it suitable for everyone , so put the guilt behind , and put some more money into spielbergs bank account .  you won't regret it . 
neg@ the cartoon is way better .  that's the bottom line on disney's incredibly hyped live action version of its 1961 animated feature .  the alliance between disney and slapstick king john hughes has produced a frenetic " home alone " with puppies , and not much else .  when production of this remake was announced , the big question seemed to be " why ?  the original cartoon still works , so what's the point ? "  the answer , it appears , is to give disney an excuse for yet another massive merchandising campaign .  the story , for those of you who missed childhood , is simple .  two dalmatians , pongo and perdy , fall in love at first sight .  they drag their " human pets " together , and in a short time both couples marry .  the heavenly match-ups turn chaotic when pongo and perdy's new-born pups are stolen ; their dog-napping engineered by the evil cruella devil , who wants them for their pelts .  everyone in the animal kingdom then joins in a frantic effort to save the puppies .  in the original movie , the animated pooches had a broad range of facial expressions and distinct personalities .  we also could hear them talk , which quickly established a crucial element to the charm of the film , the dog's view of humans as their pets .  in the new version , the dogs are mute and expressionless .  hughes attempts to give them character with repeated shots of the dalmatians draping their heads over each other and licking their faces and necks .  while he drew the desired " aww , they're so cute " reaction from the audience , it was quickly followed by several people whispering " i wonder what kind of food they smeared on the dog's heads to get them licking like that ? "  the canines' lack of personality would be easier to take if the human beings had a little .  joely richardson and jeff daniels are stunningly bland in their lead roles .  in previous films , daniels successfully played off his white bread persona .  in " something wild " , he revealed the rebellious thrill-seeker beneath his neutral demeanor .  in " terms of endearment " , his hapless appearance masked a cold , manipulative womanizer .  here , he and richardson are so consistently bland that it's a wonder their images even stick to the film .  glenn close , however , has no problems establishing a distinct personality .  as the villainous icon cruella devil , she tears up the screen in a deliciously over-the-top performance .  close matches the intensity of the animated cruella by becoming a cartoon herself .  with a two-tone fright wig , red gloves with long nails attached to the fingertips , garish animal skin outfits and stiletto heels , close bursts through her scenes like a force of nature .  she's clearly having a ball playing this monstrous icon , and her wicked glee is infectious .  when she spits out lines like " you've won the battle , but i'm about to win the wardrobe ! , "  the film comes briefly to life .   " 101 dalmatians " is crammed with john hughes' typical heavy-handed approach to comedy .  after an ingenuous opening showing pongo's morning routine as he gets daniels prepared for the day , the film quickly tumbles into lame slapstick as the pooch drags daniels on a careening trek through a city park . a little slapstick goes a long way , but hughes just keeps laying it on .  the second half of the film , where local animals team up to rescue 99 nondescript dalmatian puppies from devil and her henchmen , is a tedious home alone clone , with the bad guys enduring a variety of sadistic assaults worthy of an itchy & scratchy cartoon , including a thug getting his testicles fried on an electric fence .   " 101 dalmatians " has cute puppies and a hoot of a performance from glenn close , but not enough to warrant enduring third rate slapstick , bland characters , and unconvincing animatronic raccoons high-fiving one another .  rent the cartoon ! 
pos@ ok , let's get one thing straight right away : maximum risk is no battleship potemkin ( although it does have some russians in it ! ) , but it's not too bad , really .  it's the new film from ringo lam , the latest hong kong filmmaker to defect to hollywood , and stars that minor league schwartzeneggar from belgium , jean-claude van damme ( who , you will recall , also starred in john woo's maiden hollywood effort , hard target ) .  in lam's film , van damme plays alain moreau , a french cop ( at least his accent makes more sense here than it did in hard target ) who discovers that he was separated shortly after birth from a twin brother who was adopted by russians .  these russians defected to the united states and moved into a black neighbourhood in new york ( where , i suppose , they thought they wouldn't be noticed ) .  this brother , mikhail suverov ( played in his few scenes by . . . well ,  you know ) , becomes deeply involved in the russian mafia and the fbi ( almost the same thing , i guess ) , and is killed in france ( in the movie , things happen so fast that you don't have too much time to think about how weird this all is ) .  moreau does what any good surviving twin brother would do and goes to new york to find out why mikhail was killed , and why everyone in france who knows anything about him is also being killed ( we wonder the same thing ; i still do ) .  in little odessa , he meets mikhail's girlfriend , alex ( natasha henstridge , last seen in species ) , who helps him solve the mystery and adds immeasurably to the mise-en-scene ( she has very nice breasts , and we get to seen them briefly in this movie ; it was rated r in the us but is pg here , so they must have seen more of her breasts than we do ) .  this film lacks the gloss and high production values of such other action movies as broken arrow , the fugitive , hard target , or anything starring arnold , but that works to its benefit , i think .  after all , one thing that's been missing from woo's hollywood films is that certain hong kong funkiness that we all know and love ( well , some of us do ) .  movies like this shouldn't be too pretentious , and that is part of the problem with some of these other films : they try to be too " big " in terms of special effects and sheer spectacle .  maximum risk has its share of car chases and explosions , but they don't overwhelm the movie or detract our attention from the narrative ( not too much , anyway ) .  the emphasis throughout is on the characters and their interactions ( even if , at times , they don't make a hell of a lot of sense ) .  in fact , one of the more interesting aspects of the film is a minor character , a rather overeager new york cabbie ( frank van keeken from tv's " kids in the hall " ) , who begins as something of a joke but becomes an important part of the story .  unfortunately , by the time we have come to really get interested in him , he . . . well ,  you'll see .  the movie also features some set pieces of the type that we have come to expect from lam and his hong kong compatriots .  one is a fight in a russian sauna , with lots of sweaty , muscular male flesh ( this one will appeal to certain parts of the audience more than others ) , bullets in heads , and vodka .  another , my personal favorite , is a fight in a meat packing house , featuring pig carcasses and a chainsaw .  and even the predictable car chases are more hong kong than hollywood , as they trash those quaint french cafes , vegetable carts , and , well , french people that , we all know in our hearts , deserve trashing just for being so damn quaint .  of course , the movie does have its share of silliness .  for example , while beating the crap out of an obnoxious russian thug who obviously deserves what he's getting , alain stops long enough to look at his own reflection in the cracked mirror with which he has been whacking the guy on the head .  in an unnecessarily dramatic moment , he apparently is shocked at what he sees , at what he has become .  but what has he become ?  a tough cop who beats the hell out of a guy who tried to kill him ?  doesn't sound too unreasonable to me , considering the genre .  but let's face it , any time van damme tries to be dramatic , he looks silly .  so maximum risk is a little different from most other action films .  while watching it , i was surprised , and a little disappointed , in the relative lack of pyrotechnics .  but watching some of these other action films is sort of like experiencing a sugar rush ; after the initial excitement , there's not much left .  although it's short on spectacle , lam's film leaves a better and more lasting impression , i think .  i'm more impressed by it now than i was while watching it , and to me , that's a good sign .  go see maximum risk , but don't expect a typical hollywood action movie ; expect a sort of funky hong kong-hollywood action movie .  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice .  dr t . white teaches film at the english language and literature department of the national university of singapore , but we don't hold this against him . 
neg@ girl 6 is , in a word , a mess .  i was never able to determine what spike lee was trying to accomplish with this film .  there was no sense of where the film was going , or any kind of coherent narrative .  if there was a point to the film , i missed it .  girl 6 , by the way , is the way theresa randle's character is addressed in the phone sex workplace ; all the girls are known by their numbers .  the plot , such as it is : theresa randle is a struggling n . y . actress , and eventually takes a job as a phone-sex operator .  she begins to lose contact with reality , as her job consumes her .  also , she must deal with the advances of her ex-husband ( isiah washington ) .  he is an ex- con thief , and she tries to keep him away , while at the same time , it's clear that she still harbors feelings for him .  her neighbor , jimmy ( spike lee ) functions as the observer ; mediating between the ex- husband and girl 6 .  he also functions as a point of stability , as he watches her become seduced by the lurid world of phone sex .  the soundtrack , consisting of songs by prince , was jarring .  it kept taking my attention from the film - not altogether a bad thing , i'll grant you , as what was transpiring onscreen wasn't that riveting .  for parts of the middle of the film , the music stayed blissfully in the background .  in the opening sequence and one scene later in the film , however , the music was particularly loud and distracting .  of course , i've never really cared for prince's ( or tafkap if you like ) music .  prince fans might love the soundtrack , but it will probably be distracting , even to die-hard fans .  of the performances , the only one that stood out was spike lee's buddy character , jimmy .  he was excellent as the always-broke neighbor of girl 6 .  he should have stuck to acting in this film .  there are several sequences that gave me the impression that he'd like to be oliver stone when he grows up .  there are scenes shot with different types of film , which are purposely grainy , and reminiscent of some of the scenes in oliver stone's natural born killers .  in that film , they worked to propel the narrative .  in this film , they just made me more confused .  there are some amusing moments , and a few insights into the lives of the women who use their voices to make the phone-sex industry the multi-billion dollar industry that it has become .  other than that , though , nothing much happens .  there are a few intense moments , as when one caller becomes frightening , but even that is rather lackluster .  i'm not the biggest fan of spike lee , though i'd agree that he has done some very good work in the past .  in girl 6 , though , he seems to be floundering .  he had an interesting idea , a fairly good setup , and seemed to wander aimlessly from there .  girl 6 earns a grade of d . 
pos@ you've got to think twice before you go see a movie with a title like maximum risk .  the title is generic .  it's meaningless .  and i can't believe it's good business .  when you pick up the phone and dial 777-film , how in the world are you supposed to remember that the new jean-claude van damme movie , the one that looked kind of cool in the trailers and is directed by some chinese hot shot , is called , geez , maximum risk ?  yuck .  the movie itself deserves your attention .  for sweet bloody thrills , this one beats the summer blockbuster competition hands-down .  only mission : impossible came close to delivering as skillful a thriller , and i'll give maximum risk the edge simply because it's not as slick as the tom cruise picture , and therefore more gratifying in its execution .  much to my surprise , van damme continues to develop as a pleasant , unpretentious action hero .  his track record isn't as solid as schwarzenegger's , but he's a hell of a lot more adventurous than arnold .  in 1993 , van damme worked with hong kong's premier hardcore action director , john woo , on a fairly lame movie called hard target .   ( if you can find a bootleg copy , woo's radically different director's cut is much better than what was eventually released . )  this follow-up is directed by ringo lam ( city on fire , full contact ) , whose hong kong films are distinguished action pictures that have consistently played second fiddle to woo's more operatic offerings .  the surprise here is that maximum risk is a more effective hollywood action flick than either hard target or woo's subsequent broken arrow .  here's the rundown .  van damme plays a french cop named alain moreau who is shaken when a policeman friend ( jean-hugues anglade ) finds a corpse that's alain's exact double .  turns out alain was separated at birth from his twin brother , michael , who has been killed by some russian heavies ( and some strangely american looking cops ) .  alain does some investigating .  he finds that michael had booked a flight to new york city , and received a message from someone there named alex bohemia .  assuming michael's identity , alain flies to new york and gets tangled up with michael's girlfriend ( natasha henstridge ) , the fbi , and the russian mob in little odessa .  that's as much as you need to know .  the story is adequate , but not overly involving -- and the major plot points are basically explained to you twice , just in case you go out for popcorn at the wrong moment .  there's a love story , too , but i didn't find it terribly convincing , partly because ex-model henstridge is too high-strung in her high-profile debut ( she had precious few lines as the alien ice queen in species ) .  she's great to look at , and she can certainly read a line , but what she does here can't really be described as " acting . "  of course , " acting " isn't really what she was hired for ( i lost track of whether her shirt comes off more often than van damme's ) .  the movie is exceptionally violent , bordering on gratuity .   ( keep that in mind when planning your date . )  the stunts are spectacular , and the fact that you can spot van damme's stand-in makes his work no less impressive .  there's only so much you can do with a car wreck , but this movie makes crisp , effective use of pile-ups in a handful of frenzied destruction derbies .  and lam has a surprising , innovative sense of exactly where the camera should go to catch any bit of action .  the main difference between lam and woo , i believe , is that while woo relies on sheer spectacle to gas up his action show pieces , lam has figured out more about using cinematic space and double-barreled points of view to make things run .  don't get me wrong -- when chow yun-fat soars through space pumping bullets out of two pistols and chewing on a toothpick with glass and confetti littering the air around him in woo's hard-boiled , it's an amazing moment .  but it's a moment that's hard to reproduce in hollywood .   ( for one thing , hollywood doesn't yet have chow yun-fat ! )  while woo's hollywood movies look like the work of a talented upstart , maximum risk is a surprisingly confident picture .  the very first shot of the film is an awkward overhead view of a chase through the streets of a european city , but lam's use of odd camera angles becomes more efficient later on .  the film editing is a particularly savvy complement to lam's shooting style , accentuating rather than amplifying the action .  the performances could have used some fine tuning ( in particular , there's an annoying , overwritten manhattan cab driver in the early scenes who should have been toned down or jettisoned completely ) , and the movie doesn't always overcome the limitations of its genre .  the story is a little mundane , although there are some effective moments involving van damme's unrequited feelings toward the brother he never knew he had .  but it's not often that hollywood cranks out a truly satisfying action picture , and it's doubly surprising that this one should come with a mere whisper of publicity .  van damme fans should treat themselves to what may well be the man's best movie , and international action buffs will no doubt savor this flavorful hong kong/hollywood hybrid . 
neg@ what are we going to do with jim carrey ?  viewers of television's " in living color " know this one-man cartoon from such characters as fire marshall bill .  viewers also know that " in living color " is a skit-show and that a little of jim carrey goes a long way .  unfortunately , this fact was forgotten by the makers of the carrey comedy ace ventura : pet detective .  three writers , including carrey , worked on the slapstick story , which sends a self-styled " pet detective " on the trail of a stolen dolphin .  the missing mammal belongs to the miami dolphins , who need their mascot for the upcoming superbowl .  for plot porpoises , this story works as well as any three stooges short .  carrey gets to do his " official " schtick as he snoops around greater miami .  he leers and sneers , craning his neck to funny effect .  he even does his captain kirk impersonation .  again .  all of this is pretty harmless stuff up until the point that you realize that the writers have absolutely no intention of focusing on anyone * other * than carrey .   ( suggested alternate title--jim carrey : will do anything for a laugh . )  export it to france and you may have a hit .  as it stands , ace ventura isn't even good kid's stuff .  the profanity count , alone , is too high .  which is ironic , since children are , probably , carrey's best audience .  the film doesn't even have the goofball charm of chris elliott's recent no-brainer cabin boy .  sure , carrey has his moments .  but what can you say about a film whose high-points include watching carrey slink around to the theme from " mission impossible ? "  ace ventura has one glaring incongruity .  amid the butt-jokes and double-takes , the script takes great pains to set-up an elaborate and rather funny " crying game " gag .  and , for * this * intended audience , that takes ( ahem ) cojones . 
pos@ seen may 19 , 1999 at 5 p . m . at the crossgates cinema 18 ( guilderland , n . y . ) , theater #1 , with my brother john for $8 . 50 .  [theater rating : * * * * : excellent seats , sound and picture]   ( critic's note : this review is the longest i've ever written and still only scratches the surface .  i'd recommend this be read only by those who have seen the film as a form of critical analysis . )  as my friend and fellow film critic ted prigge said in his review of `the phantom menace' - how do i even write this review ?  never mind the fact that i've been waiting for a new `star wars' movie since i was seven years old .  never mind the fact everyone on the internet had already dissected and discussed the movie before it was even released .  never mind that there's so much going on in this movie in terms of plot , action , special effects and long-term story that to analyze every aspect would take a lot of time and energy and still wouldn't cover everything .  and also like ted does in all of his reviews , i'll try to review this in a way different from my usual reviews and instead write as casually as possible as if i was talking directly to you , the reader .  before we can begin analyzing the specific aspects of the film , many of the most general and most significant factors must be considered ( to get the specifics of the film , skip this and the next four paragraphs ) .  as has been made obvious for the last several years , another trilogy of films will be produced to account for the [missing] initial three installments of the `star wars' series ( the first of the films was actually episode four , not one ) .  george lucas , the creator of the series , has probably just assumed most people know the first-produced trilogy ( `star wars , ' `the empire strikes back' and `return of the jedi' ) is actually the second trilogy , chronologically .  in media interviews in the past he has explained why the movies were made out of order , but i can't recall his reasons .  with this new film he as writer and director has also assumed viewers are at least vaguely familiar with the storylines and significant plot points of the first trilogy ( err . . .  second trilogy . . .  well you know what i mean ) .  and in order for this review to be thorough many of those significant points must be mentioned which , unfortunately , may serve as spoilers so proceed with caution .  [critic's note #1 : it is one my personal policy not to intentionally analyze spoilers because i would like my reviews to be able to make sense to the reader both before and after viewing the film reviewed , but it would be nearly impossible to do the film justice here without breaking the rule .  critic's note #2 : reviewing this film also breaks the universal critics' law of reviewing movies , which as roger ebert coined , `it's not what a movie is about , but how it is about it . '  because so many outside factors come into play in the film's plot and significance as part of a trilogy , and just considering modern society , it again would be difficult , if not impossible to simply review the film as a completely autonomous story . ]  first of all we have to catalog what we know about the film before even going into it .  we know that young anakin skywalker will grow up to become the evil ruler darth vader who is also the father of luke skywalker , who will lead a successful revolution against him and his empire .  we know obi-wan `ben' kenobi was the trainer of anakin in the ways of `the force' in attempts to become a jedi knight , but would fail and thus anakin would fall to the `dark side . '  we also know something about `the force' itself , that it is some kind of universal force which determines fate and can be manipulated by those whose minds are expanded enough to believe in it and feel it ( the jedi ) .  what we don't know for sure is the history of the ruling of the galaxy , which is most likely much longer and more complex than any government we have had here on earth .  to me , this was one of the most fascinating aspects of the first three films because there seemed to be a subtle , definite order to all the complexity .  also , it seems that we're supposed to be familiar with a few other details about the story which have come out of the thousands of comic books and paperbacks published in the years since the movies ended .  most notably , details regarding the emperor from `empire' and `jedi , ' and that he was once a senator and his last name is palpatine .  for those who haven't kept up with all the `star wars' paraphernalia over the years , there is still a way to know these details simply by recognizing an actor ( or his voice at least ) .  with `the phantom menace' being the first chapter of a long saga , one would assume the basic groundwork would be laid , including the history behind all the major factors of the series , especially `the force' and the jedi knights .  unfortunately , this film does more of the opposite as it simply builds on top of what must be a history so long and detailed it could never be explained .  i didn't liked that aspect to this film and is one of the reasons it falls just short of greatness .  if you're going to tell a story from the beginning - tell it from the beginning ( is it possible that after this trilogy is complete there could be another trilogy of episodes -1 through -3 to clarify the back story even further ? ) .  but i digress .  i've said so much and yet i haven't even touched on the specifics of the film itself .  all these necessary `disclaiming' elements should go to show just how vast the story of the `star wars' series is and this individual film itself .  what we get here is a movie not unlike any of the other three we've come to know and love since the late 1970s .  its similarity to the other films helps to keep the spirit of the series familiar , but at the same time seems to be a flaw in the filmmaking process itself since it sometimes rings of unoriginality .  the basic story is rather sorted , complex and even confusing at times .  we're told that an army known as `the trade federation' has set up a blockade around an seemingly insignificant planet called naboo .  we're not given too many details to clarify the back story of what the federation is and what their purpose is , instead the film opts to get its story moving quickly .  we're introduced to two jedi , the master qui-gon jinn ( neeson ) and his apprentice obi-wan kenobi ( mcgregor ) .  the two are acting as ambassadors of some sort in hopes of ending the obvious hostility between the federation and the planet's queen , amidala ( portman ) .  the leader of the federation , an alien called viceroy , is following the orders of a strange , mythical character - an older human man whose face and body are covered and shadowed by the black robe and hood he wears .  he is referred to as lord sidious but considering his appearance , and especially that creepy evil voice of his , he is a obviously one of the most significant characters in the series .  sidious communicates to viceroy only through digital transmissions and never in person .  clearly his actual whereabouts are something he wants to keep secret because that would also reveal his identity ( which is never openly revealed in the film , but should be clear to most viewers .  i have a feeling we'll delve into his background in the next two films ) .  but it doesn't take the film long to spring into action and within minutes our hero jedi are fighting for their lives and the film's story begins to move along .  the film doesn't have one specific plot and works in the same manner as the other films in the series where as what we get is one mini-plot and adventure on top of another .  there are so many of these mini-plots-within-plots in this film i would not describe them all because it is what gives the movie its hook .  the other films have relied on this type of storytelling , but because of the limits of the technology at the time , the films' screenplays were also limiting .  the sense of limitlessness here is what gives `the phantom menace' its unique traits .  as we already know , the film takes place at least a generation or two before the original `star wars' trilogy which means a lot of the background which was unclear and/or unexplained may be cleared up here as it is the beginning of the vast epic story .  and here the most significant storyline is that involving the discovery of 10-year-old anakin skywalker ( lloyd ) , by qui-gon jinn and his introduction to the jedi council .  to briefly summarize the story , jinn stumbles upon skywalker in an attempt to buy parts for queen amidala's spaceship which was damaged in efforts to free her from the federation .  their meeting on tatooine is mostly chance but of course jinn chalks it up to the will of the force .  jinn can feel that skywalker has a great natural power in the force , and through another sub-plot involving a bet on skywalker in a fantastic race he will enter , more and more details of his significance begin to reveal themselves .  this also provides for a new elaboration and explanation of the force which has never been mentioned before .  in fact , it seems to be something so important it is upsetting it has never been mentioned before .  the element seriously undermines the mystical aspect of the force and transforms it into something more physical and scientific which is completely unnecessary .  by the film's third act all the major significant elements become tied together in a rather familiar execution of the plot .  it's funny how the reality of the `star wars' world seems so embedded in mythology , new age-like philosophy and religion and yet the solution to all the major conflicts in the series has been violence .  not that this technique hasn't been used in movies and in real-life situations countless times throughout history .  and at least it's all in the spirit of the ultimate powers of good versus evil in a fun and exciting matter .  it does border of the cartoonish sometimes , but that's just the film appealing to our inner child , which is the basic reason the entire saga exists and has become such a big part of our modern society .  `the phantom menace' delivers exactly what you'd expect from a `star wars' film which is why it succeeds as well as it does but is always why it never truly achieves greatness .  so many things in the film we've seen before and done with more heart because the filmmakers concentrated just a bit more on story and character because they were limited .  but this film is far from bad because it at least embraces the spirit of sheer fun at the movies . 
neg@ any remake of an alfred hitchcock film is at best an uncertain project , as a perfect murder illustrates .  frankly , dial m for murder is not one of the master director's greatest efforts , so there is ample room for improvement .  unfortunately , instead of updating the script , ironing out some of the faults , and speeding up the pace a little , a perfect murder has inexplicably managed to eliminate almost everything that was worthwhile about dial m for murder , leaving behind the nearly- unwatchable wreckage of a would-be '90s thriller .  almost all suspense films are loaded with plot implausibilities .  the best thrillers keep viewers involved enough in what's going on so that these flaws in logic don't become apparent until long after the final credits have rolled .  unfortunately , in a perfect murder , the faults are often so overt that we become aware of them as they're happening .  this is a very bad sign .  not only do such occurrences shatter any suspension of disbelief , but they have the astute viewer looking for the next such blunder .  of course , in the case of a perfect murder , at least that gives an audience member something to do besides concentrating on the inane plot and the lifeless , cardboard characters .  a perfect murder isn't a strict remake of dial m for murder , but it does borrow heavily from frederick knott's play ( which was also the source material for hitchcock's version , as well as a 1981 made-for-tv retelling ) .  emily hayes ( gwyneth paltrow ) is the wealthy wife of powerful wall street mover-and-shaker steven hayes ( michael douglas ) .  their marriage isn't going well -- emily resents steven's controlling instincts , and , as a form of rebellion , she is having an affair with a penniless painter , david shaw ( viggo mortensen ) .  when steven learns of the relationship , he decides to confront david , but his approach isn't that of a typical cuckolded husband .  instead of yelling or threatening , steven offers david a proposal that's too good to resist : for $500 , 000 in cash ( $100 , 000 before , the rest after ) , he is to break into steven's new york apartment and kill emily .   ( of course , after getting the first payment , david never bothers to ask how he's supposed to get the rest . )  ultimately , i'm not sure which of the three main characters we're supposed to be sympathetic to : the cold-hearted husband , who wants his wife dead so he can get his hands on her fortune ; her mercenary lover , who is willing to do the deed for half-a-million ; or the woman , who is happily carrying on an extramarital affair .  not only are these individuals all profoundly dislikable , but they're not interesting .   ( it's possible to make a good movie with detestable characters -- see reservoir dogs -- but there has to be something compelling about them , which , in this case , there isn't . )  steven , emily , and david are all lifted directly from the screenwriting 101 text book on stereotypes .  the actors in this film are obviously just on hand to get their paychecks .  michael douglas is playing the kind of heartless tycoon that he can do in his sleep -- he's gordon gekko with an unfaithful wife .  gwyneth paltrow , who was recently delightful and appealing in sliding doors , is simply awful here .  she now has the dubious distinction of have starred in two of 1998's worst thrillers ( the other being hush ) .  at least viggo mortensen ( g . i .  jane ) has a little fun with his part , but then he usually does interesting things even in bad movies .  the thin supporting cast includes david suchet , the star of " poirot , " as a police inspector , and sarita choudhury ( kama sutra ) as emily's best friend .  a perfect murder is a plodding production that generates almost no suspense from beginning to end .  there aren't many twists and turns in the unexpectedly linear script , which makes the ending inevitable almost from the start .  it's surprising to see director andrew davis , the man behind the fugitive , involved in this mess , but , like his stars , he too needs to earn a living .  it's just that remaking hitchcock , and doing it so badly , hardly seems to be an honorable way to go about getting the dough . 
pos@ in _daylight_ , sylvester stallone breaks no new ground , cinematically speaking , but he covers familiar territory quite well .  yesterday , as i was going about my business in the university bookstore , i noticed this stand with these _daylight_ movie posters on it .  i had never heard of the movie , so i stopped by to check it out .  it turned out that they were giving away free passes to the movie for people who had or applied for the credit card they were offering .  so , i shrugged , thought , " hey , they probably won't give me the card anyway , and i could always use a free movie , " so i signed up .  all in all , i don't think i got that bad of a deal , either .  rob cohen , who has previously brought us such films as _dragon : the bruce lee story_ and , more recently , _dragonheart_ ( gee , i wonder if he likes dragons for some reason ?  you think ? ) , now brings us a very nicely executed disaster picture , with fx by industrial light and magic , about the after-effects of an explosion that collapses a busy tunnel between new york and new jersey .  sylvester stallone plays kit latura , who is essentially a carbon copy of the character he played in _cliffhanger_ : a paramedic on the outs because he made a mistake that got people killed .  when the crisis hits , he is in the right place at the right time and takes it upon himself to go in and get everybody out .  there are other similarities to _cliffhanger_ , too ; perhaps the only real difference is that _cliffhanger_ had a villain , where _daylight_'s bad guy is mother nature .  in fact , had the two movies been made in hong kong , this might have been titled _cliffhanger ii_--it bears the same relationship to that film that most hk film " sequels " do to their predecessors .  the first half-hour of _daylight_ is setup .  subplots are woven , and the mechanism of the disaster is assembled .  we meet all the important people . . . toxic waste disposal truck drivers ; a young , frustrated , jilted , rejected playwright ; a family struggling to stay together ; an older couple and their dog ; a truckload of prisoners ; an ad agency executive ; a tunnel police officer ; stallone ; and others .  we watch the trucks trundle toward their destination ; we watch stallone and so many others driving toward the tunnel for their various reasons .  and then , thirty minutes into the film , _boom_ .  and it's a big one .  >from there on in , it's sly stallone to the rescue .  and rescue he does , enduring batterings , beatings , falls , repeated immersion in 34-degree water , explosions , mud , rats , and constant setbacks , before going on to save the day , sly-style .  again . . . there's  nothing new here .  and yet there doesn't need to be .  the fun of _daylight_ is not in the story but in the execution .  the special-effects are first-rate , thanks to industrial light and magic , and the ensemble cast works well together .  once the film hits its stride , it carries the viewer right along to the finish , with very few jars along the way .  this review is copyright 1996 by christopher e . meadows .  permission granted for distribution through rec . arts . movies . reviews and all associated archival .  permission granted for free redistribution via cyberspace as long as this message remains attached .  all other rights reserved to the author . 
neg@ everyone knows that old rule , 'never work with children and animals . '  in this latest horror flick mimic case , it's 'never work with children and genetically enhanced killer animals' instead , as mimic features both of these and succeeds in doing nothing except mildly engaging the audience .  the film begins in new york , where we see children dying from a mysterious disease , which is being carried by cockroaches .  dr . susan tyler ( sorvino ) creates a genetically enhanced bug ( the 'judas' breed ) , however , which is designed to kill all cockroaches .  the bug does it's job , the cockroaches all die , and the terror is gone .  'three years later' appears on the screen , and we discover that the judas breed is back , bigger than ever , and ready to kill .  the spin on this bug , however , is that it can mimic it's predator , and in this case . . . . it's  humans .  that should teach us for squishing all those bugs .  what should be a roller coaster ride with bugs everywhere , tons of gory deaths and some massive set pieces instead turns out to be a rather subdued , almost boring movie which plods along at a very slow pace .  perhaps the movie was trying to be thought provoking , and trying to avoid the 'predator' type movie it could easily have become .  if it is , then the director and writers have made the wrong move , because this is perfectly suited to be an all out action fest .  the director , who bought us cronos , a far superior film , directs the film in a calm , and frankly dull movie .  there are few exciting sequences , instead just a lot of people talking .  if the dialogue was intelligent , then it would be all right , but it's sadly babbling nonsense .  in fact , the script is embarrsingly weak , and the characterizations not much better . sorvino and company are as 2d as characters come , with the script not bothering to develop them .  there is some action in this film , but it's directed in such an annoying way , it's just infuriating to watch .  the camera cuts all over the place , disoreitating the audience , and instead of involving the audience in the action , it merely alienates them .  the peformances are o . k , if slightly below average .  sorvino is o . k , although she's not very good at conveying terror , or anything emotion really .  the supporting cast are all sterotypes , with characters such as a big black security guard with a foul mouth , a geeky scientist with spectacles , and what could be the most stereotypical mexican 'old timer' ever .  their reasonable good fun , however .  mimic , then , may fail with it's story , pacing and characters , but the film does look good .  like dark city , mimic is a definite case of style of content .  it may be a bit too gloomy for it's own good , but the sets look nice , and parts of the film are directed well .  but looks aren't good enough to save mimic from the depths of mediocre , somewhere where it shouldn't really belong .  a good opportunity , then , wasted .  a shame .  overall rating= review by david wilcock ? 1998 
pos@ vampire films , as well as other horror films , are usually dumb and predictable b-movies , meant to scare us by cliches and simple shocks .  it is therefore interesting to watch neil jordans recent film that is not only visually stunning , but has also a plot worth making movies about .  based on anne rice's novel , " interview with a vampire " is a long , dark trip to hell .  the film opens with gothic quire and dark streets of present-day san francisco .  the camera slowly find particular window .  a shape of a young man is visible in the darkness .   " so you want me to tell you the story of my life ? " .  the mysterious man is louis ( brad pitt ) , a two-century old vampire , telling his story to a fascinated interviewer ( christian slater ) .  his tale opens in 1791 louisiana , just south of new orleans , where louis falls victim to the vampire lestat ( tom cruise ) .  given a choice between death and eternal life as one of the undead , louis chooses the latter , a decision he will forever regret .  everlasting life and eternal youth , promised to him by lestat , turn instead into never ending suffering , damned to eternal hunger for blood and longing for peace .  louis cannot kill with the impunity of lestat , but , to sate his hunger , he must feed , and the blood of animals is not enough .  eventually , he pierces the neck of a grief-stricken young girl named claudia ( kirsten dunst ) , whom lestat then curses with his unholy form of resurrection so that she can be a surrogate daughter to both himself and louis .  for a while , they are one " big , happy family . "  but all things end , and claudia's growing resentment of lestat fuels a bloody confrontation .  when luis and claudia break loose from lestat , they travel to paris , where the euro-vamps santiago ( stephen rea ) and armand ( antonio banderas ) , who introduced them to a bigger world of the damned .  director neil jordan ( " the crying game " ) together with the talented director of cinematography philippe rousselot and composer elliot goldenthal has created an incredible atmosphere .  as the film begins , there is an incredible palette of colors , beautiful sunrises , lush golden fields , green forests , inky-blue clouds and blending sun .  when luis is " born to darkness " , everything suddenly changes to dark velvet , lit only by the silver moonlight .  the beautiful production design by dante ferretti , wonderful costumes and art direction by malcolm middleton re-create the multiple historical periods in the film .  from the renaissance new orleans and the beautiful rococo paris of the 18th century , to our present days .  the casting is likewise good , involving some of the most famous and beautiful stars of hollywood , ireland and spain .  the controversial casting of tom cruise as lestat is incredibly effective .  cruise is energetic , sinister , charismatic , wild and bloodthirsty .  cruise's lestat likes to seduce young women before exacting his dark red sustenance .  with alarming swiftness , the victims switch from sexual excitement to outright horror , as his murderous purpose becomes clear .   " . . . kill them mercifully , but do it .  you are what you are . . for  do not doubt , you are a killer ! "  that is how lestat is teaching luis .  but behind that furious facade is anger and loneliness that he carries through the centuries and tries to smother with nightly rampages .  brad pitt is equally convincing as the " vampire with a human soul " .  antonio banderas and stephen rea are effective , but since they play more or less secondary characters , their performances are almost invisible .  the greatest performance in the film comes suprisingly from the young kristen dunst , who manages to create an incredibly emotional and believable character .  the world is changing around the little child , but she does not .  she remains unchangeable - a child for all eternity .  only her wise , dark eyes reveal her age .  ironically the film's only miss is the script .  anne rice's novel is a very interesting read , and her script is rich , colorful and emotional , but it is also tiering and too melancholic , at times resembling a soap opera :  claudia : " . . . . is that what i should do ?  let you go . . my  father , my luis , who made me . . . who will look after me , my dark angel , when you are gone ? "  luis : " everything will be alright . . "  claudia : " do you really believe that ? "  and then they hug emotionally .  moments like those displayed above and luis' self-pity is a bit tiresome .  however rice's script is otherwise strong and well structured , bringing up humor and comic episodes , that were more or less hidden in the book .  when lestat finds claudia's dead dressmaker , whom she has killed , he cries out : " who will make you that dress now ?  be a little practical . . . . never  in the house ! "  moments like that are both entertaining and appealing .  neil jordan's direction is beautiful and sensual as he plays with interesting issues like eternity , homosexuality , love and loneliness .  his gothic saga is not meant to scare , but to display these issues differently .  wrapped up in mystery , his new , original picture brings vampire-films to a new height . 
neg@ when the film features richard lynch in the role of chief villain , you know that you can expect nothing more than a b grade action movie .  however , since this film also featured michael madsen , more than capable character actor , this time in the role of protagonist , the author of this review decided to give the film some benefit of the doubt .  however , the very first scenes show clear b grade action credentials - madsen plays richard montana , tough policeman who raids a drug warehouse and make life miserable for local crime lord mario gio ( played by lynch ) .  however , the raid was only partially successful , and montana is getting the rap .  so , he begins his own private war against gio , trying to penetrate his organisation pretending to be corrupt .  in the process , he meets gio's mistress gina zamora ( played by rosie vela ) and starts relationship with her too .  although it doesn't stink like many of the similar films can , inside edge is mostly forgettable b grade action routine .  nobody in this film actually puts much effort , including madsen or lynch , and this is especially case with uninspired screenwriter william tannen or director warren clarke .  the only not so forgettable element in this film is presence of former supermodel rosie vela , who , apart from showing her more than impressive looks , shows some of the singing talent too .  however , this isn't reason enough for viewers to spend hour and half watching a film that they would , in most likelihood , forget the next day . 
pos@ ok , i admit i had a bad attitude about this film from the start .  a romantic comedy about the trials and tribulations of single working parents ?  with a couple of incredibly cute kids thrown in for good measure ?  yuck .  but it's not really too bad .  it has a lot working against it , for me at least .  in addition to the above , it is typical of a lot of recent movies in that it is really just a glorified made-for-tv movie , but longer and with bigger stars , and you have to pay to see it .  it does win you over , though , even if it is painfully predictable .  just think about it : two single parents , with their cute kids , are thrown together due to a missed field trip .  through a day of near disasters , they cont inually meet , get in one another's way , cause trouble for one another , and generally insult one another at every opportunity .  in fact , they hate each other so much that we know that they are , or soon will be , in love .  the only people who hate each other more than lovers are married couples .  so this film is predictable , just as the screwball comedies of the classical hollywood cinema were predictable ( and the screwball genre is obviously hoffman's model for this film ) .  will they get fired from their yuppie jobs ?  will they make the big soccer game that is so important to their kids ?  will pfeiffer realize what a jerk her ex-husband , a drummer for bruce springsteen , really is ( aren't they all ? ) ?  will they finally kiss ?  well , what do you expect ?  but there is a certain amount of satisfaction in having our expectations fulfilled , especially when it is done with as much humour , along with a lack of sticky sentimentality , as it is in this film .  pfeiffer and clooney have a certain chemistry together that is surprisingly charming , and the kids are neither shoved into the background nor allowed to steal the show .  one word of caution , though .  this film is being billed in some places as a " family " movie .  don't let that stop you .  however , i think most kids , especially boys , would be pretty bored by this move .  after all , nobody gets killed and there are no explosions .  all in all , a good , non-offensive date movie .  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
neg@ in my opinion , a movie reviewer's most important task is to offer an explanation for his opinion .  but with soul survivors , i'm so full of critical rage that this review is liable to turn into a venomous , uncontrollable rant , obligations damned .  however , protocol forces me to do otherwise .  soul survivors tells the story of four college-bound friends : cassandra ( melissa sagemiller ) is sweet and innocent .  party girl annabel ( eliza dushku of bring it on ) is dating world-weary harvard student matt ( wes bentley ) .  matt still has feelings for cassie , who is now dating sean ( casey affleck ) .  driving back from a creepy , gothic party , the quartet gets into a horrific car crash .  sean dies , leaving cassie crestfallen and guilty , made worse because sean saw matt kiss cassie just minutes after sean revealed his love for her .  as cassie mopes through her classes , she sees the ghost of sean all over the place , urging her to follow him .  along with being plagued by other ghastly visions , cassie is also followed by thugs from that strange party .  annabel and matt try calming her down , but no one shares cass's visions .  she has to figure out this purgatory all by herself .  rarely have i seen a director so thoroughly mishandle material .  in his directorial debut , steve carpenter does nothing to provoke the audience into feeling any emotion .  when the movie's camerawork isn't pedestrian , it's clich ? d .  carpenter's need for close-ups , his camera following sagemiller from behind , drain the movie of any anticipation .  we already know what to look for , so why should we be surprised ?  and the sense of scary atmosphere , which was recently done so well in the others , is nowhere to be found here .  carpenter's script relies on random twists and turns with a minimum of logic and loads of laziness .  this is a movie where the ending features one character providing an explanation about the plot to another character , which is one of the lamest screenwriting devices around .  the second lamest device , of course , is the , " oh , it was all a dream " resolution .  and guess what ?  this movie has both !  not that the main body of the film , which has sagemiller constantly running in fear or having a nervous breakdown , is anything worthwhile .  since there's no captivating dialogue , no character chemistry exists anywhere .  that's a huge problem , since the four main characters are supposed to be couples .  carpenter can't even get the smutty scenes right , which are becoming more prevalent in pg-13 movies like bring it on and get over it .  [the film was recently re-cut from an r rating to get more kids in the seats .  -ed . ]  when sagemiller and dushku dance together at a club , he rarely shows them in a full shot and he never keeps the camera on them for longer than a second before relating to some michael bay-style quick cuts .  and when sagemiller and dushku take a shower together after getting covered in paint , they're fully clothed .  regardless , any sexiness in that scene is undercut by its stupidity .  why wouldn't they wash the clothes in the sink or in the washing machine ?  why would they shower in their clothes ?  what if they weren't covered in latex paint ?  the cast , which will see better material in the future , would be wise to leave this one off their resumes .  i felt sorry for affleck , who i've liked in other movies , and bentley , who was great in american beauty .  dushku , who possesses an alluring femme fetale quality , has got to stop taking roles belonging to rose mcgowan .  as for sagemiller ( star of the aforementioned get over it ) , i want to see her in a movie where she plays a person , and not an object for gawking .  and i'm not even getting into luke wilson's role as a priest .  at least he's friends with wes anderson .  bottom line : soul survivors is so awful i feel compelled to knock on doors and warn people about it . 
pos@ the deer hunter , directed by michael cimino , is truly one of the greatest movies ever made .  a captivating drama about the lives of a group of friends from a small russian-american pennsylvania community , the deer hunter promises to be one of those movies that you will never forget .  in this academy award winner for best picture of 1978 , outstanding performances are turned in by all actors , and cimino's brilliant directing provides the perfect vision into the character's lives .  the first act of the film provides us with an inside look into the lives of a group of men from a small community who work and hang out together .  michael , portrayed perfectly by robert de niro , is shown early on as the natural leader of the group .  after a days work , the men leave their jobs at a factory to head down to the local bar , where john ( george dzundza ) works .  three of the men , michael , steven ( john savage ) , and nick ( christopher walken ) will be leaving shortly for vietnam , but not before steven gets married .  after the marriage , the group , including axel ( chuck aspegren ) , spend one last day on a hunting trip , one of their favorite past-times .  this sequence of events enables us to view the lifestyle of a normal group of men , who will be suddenly and permanently affected by the ravages and separations of war .  the wedding scenes , although criticized by many as being quite long , actually enhance even more the purpose of the first act .  the outstanding performances by de niro , walken , streep , savage , and cazale , who died very shortly after the filming of the movie was completed , really begin to shine through and promise not to halt in the near future .  the second act of the movie begins with the trio of men on the front lines in vietnam , stationed in a south vietnamese village being attacked by the viet cong .  the men are eventually captured and held in a floating prison on a river .  this prison , run by the v . c . ,  initiates the horrifying scenes in the movie , where the prisoners are forced to play russian roulette against each other .  steven , who is emotionally marred by this turn of events , is secluded in a tiger cage with water up to his face when he refuses to participate .  michael shows his leadership again by convincing nick that the only way that steven will survive is if the two friends play against each other , and moreover , they must play with 3 bullets in the gun .  personally , i felt that de niro's absolutely gripping portrayal really was displayed in a brilliant way in these and the following scenes .  the men are eventually able to escape , but are separated .  michael is able to get steven , who ends up losing his legs , to medical care , while nick finds his way to saigon and a u . s . army hospital .  michael returns home and does not feel at all like a hero .  he wants to avoid the celebrations and recognition that his friends would like to bestow upon him .  he assumes that nick is still lost in vietnam .  the third act concentrates more on walken's character , who eventually stumbles upon a small gambling operation where the game is , again , russian roulette .  only in this game , you play for money .  michael has learned that nick is possibly still alive and returns to saigon to attempt to find him .  the two narrowly find each other at the russian roulette games , but do not link up until michael discovers nick participating in the games and tries to bring him home .  a very emotional , and , for many , a very disturbing movie , the deer hunter is a truly magnificent movie that should not be missed .  the greatest performances possible are turned in by all actors , and cimino's directing , which is considered to be at his all-time best in this film , is equally dazzling .  do not miss this film , it will captivate and astound you . 
neg@ a pseudo-intellectual film about the pseudo-intellectual world of art magazines , high art is as wasted as its drug-addled protagonists .  in the only notable part of the movie , ally sheedy and radha mitchell deliver nice performances in the two leading roles , not that lisa cholodenko's script or direction makes you care much about either character .  living in a world of heroin induced highs , they float along until they fall in love with each other .  this uninviting picture , full of pretentious minor characters , has a receptionist that reads dostoevski and a woman in the restroom line who is a certified genius , having recently been awarded a prestigious mcarthur grant .  24-year-old syd ( radha mitchell ) , who has a rather bland , live-in boyfriend , was just promoted to assistant editor at the artistic photography magazine " frame . "  although the receptionist is impressed , syd is mainly a gofer for her boss until she meets famous photographer lucy berliner ( ally sheedy ) .  for her to do photos for " frame , " lucy demands that syd be promoted to editor and assigned to her since lucy fancies her .  lucy lives with her current lover , a washed up german actress named greta , played with a frequently indecipherable series of mumbles by patricia clarkson .  the two of them and their friends wile away their time snorting and shooting up dope , usually heroin .  this does not happen in a single episode , but becomes more commonplace than sleeping in the picture .  syd , who lives in the apartment below them , joins in on the fun and becomes a member of the zombie club .  lucy seems pretty happy with her life of drugs , which apparently is funded by her mother .  lucy quit working professionally 10 years ago since she thought she was being " pigeonholed , " and , since her mother has money , we can only assume that that's how lucy supports her habit and procures her living expenses .  a typical scene has the editors arguing about whether a potential photographer's work is transcendental or merely classical .  that no one has a clue as to the dogma they are spouting becomes obvious but not particularly funny .   " your work has a cultural currency that is important now , " is the artist-speak that the frame's manager uses to convince lucy to show her pictures in the magazine .  when the big scene comes in which lucy puts the moves on syd , her idea of a romantic line is , " i want to get high with you . "  in lucy's world , sex and drugs come hand-in-hand .  and the movie , except for the obligatory scene of someone almost overdosing , shows drug usage as being a hip and natural part of the art scene .  this vacuous picture throws in a standard downer ending in an attempt to manipulate our emotions .  in another movie , it might have worked , but in this one the reaction is likely to be decidedly muted .  high art runs 1 : 36 .  it is rated r for explicit sex , pervasive drug use and language and is not appropriate for those younger than college age . 
pos@ a common complaint amongst film critics is " why aren't there more literate scripts available ? "  quiz show gives signs of hope that the art of writing isn't dead in hollywood and that we need not only look to independent films for thoughtful content .  paul attanasio's script takes what could have been a tepid thriller ( the quiz show scandals of the late 50s ) and delivers a telling parable about the emptiness of the post war american dream and the golden bubble that surrounds and protects tv networks and their sponsors .  the film is riddled with telling symbols ( e . g .  a '58 chrysler , a radio announcement of sputnik ) but is never heavy handed .  deft direction by robert redford and keen performances by ralph fiennes , john turturro and rob morrow dovetail perfectly with the carefully honed script .  redford departs from the usually overlight , " cable tv quality " sets and camera work so common in recent 20th century period pieces .  quiz show perfectly captures the colors and textures of the eisenhower years .  although i was only 4 years old when the " twenty one " scandal broke , enough of the 50s icons survived throughout my childhood for me to recognize the authenticity of redford's almost tangible palette .  from plastic covered furniture to carefully coifed contestants , the images ring true from that era of rampant consumerism , of a generation that had gone through 15 years of depression and world war without " disposable income , " before the manifestation of its american dream .  the film deftly weaves several themes together , from assimilation and exclusion of jews from " the good life , " to the lengths that a scion of a literary family will go to to match his father's fame .  though the 50s audience that is " rocked " by this scandal may initially seem naive to us , they should appear all too familiar , with our current national passion for the rise and fall of icons like michael jackson or tonya harding .  charles van doren and herbie stemple were the overnight mega celebrities of their day .  the tv audience is almost a fourth main character , always at the center of the decisions being made on their behalf .  at the film's end , the credits roll past slow motion footage of that same 50s tv audience , mindlessly laughing at some piece of fluff .  like the distorted mirror that captured a blurred swastika at the end of cabaret , this " mirror " may reflect an image we're not all that comfortable with . 
neg@ so what do you get when you mix together plot elements from various successful sci-fi films such as close encounters of the third kind , 2001 : a space odyssey , apollo 13 and contact ?  well , whatever it is , you'd sure as hell hope that it would be a thousand times better than this shoddy attempt at such a melange , considering the disastrous results we're left with here .  this is a film that takes a little bit of everything , but ultimately adds up to a lot of nothing !  it's like i said . . . this  movie sucks .  plot : a rescue crew of astronauts is sent down to mars in the year 2020 , after an unknown energy force leads to a loss of contact with the previous gang of space aviators to visit the red planet .  critique : extremely underwhelming is the best way to describe this movie .  uneven , would be another .  the trailer for this movie actually showed some promise , the buzz around it had been so-so , and even the film itself starts off with a decent first twenty minutes , all leading you to believe that it's actually going to go " somewhere " .  but it isn't long before the entire movie downshifts into neutral , features more space walks than anything interesting on the cherry-colored planet , tries too hard to get us into the " pain " of some its characters and unsuccessfully tosses some romance into the mix .  in a sci-fi movie ?  well , i don't know , much of it just seemed like a bunch of nerdies talking techie jargon for about an hour and a half , only to figure out some big secret in the end , a secret which practically had me yawning with excitement .  ultimately , this is a movie that starts off with a decent premise , joins the crew in their " misadventures in space " for the main crux of its journey , and eventually settles down for one of the most anti-climactic endings this side of contact .  mind you , if you enjoyed that film's shrug-of-the-shoulders ending , you might just enjoy this frivolous ditty as well .  of course , i don't remember contact having such obvious and painfully distracting computer generated effects at its end of story .  ugh .  what a friggin' mess .  films like this generally get me wondering about the brass in hollywood again .  didn't anybody recognize the crappiness in this script ?  didn't they read the bad dialogue , the cheezy lines , the obvious derivative nature of the work ( mind you , with a director like depalma at the helm , that ain't saying much ! ) .  of course , you can't really blame the brass for the inclusion of jerry o'connell in this fine crew of thespians .  'nuff said .  neither can you blame them for depalma cranking up the juice on the film's musical score during the last fifteen minutes , presumably in order to wake the audience up ( okay , we get it brian , this scene is supposed to be powerful . . . wow . . . yawn . . . my  ears hurt ! ) .  so is anything salvageable in this movie ?  sure .  gary sinise does another great job , as does cheadle , the film doesn't completely bore you as much as it just moves along slowly without anything really interesting happening , and yes , the " sand-twister " effect that you see in the commercial is well done .  other than that ?  i guess i could say that i admire how filmmakers have become so much more devious in their product placement strategies . . . oops ,  did i say " admire " , i meant " am disgusted " !  all in all , this movie delivers very little in actual substance , offers two-bit dialogue masked in a lot of sci-fi mumbo-jumbo , pretends to be deep when really it's just sappy , and eventually just settles into an ending which , other than presenting us with a pathetic computer graphic as a part of the story , gives us little more to think about than how we might be able to get our money back for sitting through this rehashed dreck .  go see the ninth gate . . . now  there's a great movie !  and on a personal note , i think it's time for depalma to stop worrying so much about his proverbial 12-minute uninterrupted film sequences , and start worrying more about how crappy his movies are getting . 
pos@ with stars like sigourney weaver ( " alien " trilogy ) and academy award winner holly hunter ( the piano , raising arizona , etc . ) together in a single hollywood production , one would immediately identify the film as a potential academy award hot shot .  sadly for copycat , though tightly scripted and nicely plot , is still at heart , a typical hollywood thriller .  helen ( weaver ) , after a traumatic near death encounter with a serial killer , darryl ( harry connick jr . ) , has developed a phobia for being outdoors , so to speak .  incidentally , helen is also an expert on the subject of serial killers , which make her a juicy target for serial killer wannabes .  a year has passed and strange deaths begin to terrorise the city of san francisco .  detective monahan ( hunter ) and getz ( mulroney ) , baffled by the unorthodox methods of killing used by the killer , seeks the professional help of helen , who , as expected was reluctant at first .  copycat " borrows " a lot from silence of the lambs and in most cases , it did work .  but copycat tries to be a little bit more by immersing the audience into the lives of its main characters to give them more believability , this was rather unnecessary as the scenes seem to disrupt the mood of the entire film and also . . .  much of the time wasted could've been used to build up the suspense and injected with drama .  even so , weaver and hunter act very well in their own departments . . .  weaver being the vulnerable yet strong-within character ( as in aliens ) and hunter being the short , tough , texan speaking cop ( as in raising arizona ) .  harry connick jr . , a very good jazz singer , shines as the imprisoned serial killer a la hannibal lecter .  which comes to the moment of judgement ( drum roll please . . . ) .  copycat is a good thriller .  although the plot is highly predictable and one can actually predict the rest of the movie after about 45 minutes into the show , copycat survives from the moments of anticipation where the audience are held on to their seats , in anticipation of the killers next immediate move .  this worked pretty well and will offer audiences a couple of unexpected jolts .  nice movie to bring your girlfriend to . . . . 
neg@ hav plenty , as we are told in the beginning and reminded during the film , is a true story .  life itself is a series of true stories , but most are not movie material .  as scripted , directed , and acted by cinematic newcomer christopher scott cherot , hav plenty limps along at best .  its dialog is so stilted - " you know what they say , 'no women ; no cry . ' "  - that the actors are content to read the screenplay rather than invest much energy in trying to act it .  in the story , lee plenty ( cherot ) is a 28-year-old author and teaching assistant .  the movie , which happens mainly over the new year's holiday , consists of a series of incidents in which various single and married women try to kiss lee or take him to bed .  since he consistently refuses , caroline gooden ( tammi katherine jones ) figures that he must be gay .  eventually he and havilland " hav " savage ( chenoa maxwell ) get together , proving that he wasn't gay after all , just picky .  sexy women can sit on his lap and ask him to go to bed with them , but he will not even kiss them .  he's a man who knows his mind , which he frequently shares directly with the audience in a series of trite and overly cute monologues .  filled with wealthy african-americans , the story is closest in tone to love jones , which was better .  hav plenty's story doesn't go anywhere .  at the end it subjects us to lee plenty's new film , which is a movie of the movie we've just seen , but with even worse acting .   " remember folks that , as outrageous as this all seems , this is a true story . "  hav tells the camera , but the problem is that it's not outrageous at all or even the least bit interesting .  hav plenty isn't so much a bad film as it is a total waste of the audience's time .  hav plenty runs 1 : 32 .  it is rated r for profanity and would be fine for most teenagers . 
pos@ for a movie about disco-era excess , " 54 " comes up surprisingly short on the sleazy happenings at the titular late 1970s and early 1980s manhattan dance club .  think of it as a sort of " boogie nights " -lite - where that similarly-structured and -set portrayal of the porn industry was loaded with salacious goings-on and skidded on a destructive midpoint tone shift , " 54 " leaves the kinkier details to your imagination .  it never needlessly revels in its seedy subject matter , but it thankfully never resorts to preaching , either .  in fact , were it not for the rampant drug use and the intermittent dark moment , " 54 " would be about as feathery as the time period's popular female hairstyle .  studio 54 was a haven for the rich , famous and generally good-looking before it closed its doors forever in 1986 .  inside , anything went and , we are told , everything did .  the film's fictional main character is shane o'shea ( ryan phillippe , the jerky jock from " i know what you did last summer " ) , a fresh-faced 19-year-old who dreams of venturing beyond the club's velvet rope and coming face-to-face with the wild decadence he can only read about in magazines .  his wish comes true when studio 54 owner steve rubell ( mike myers ) spots him amongst a crowd of gawkers one night in '79 and permits him passage - but not before he doffs his hideous shirt , of course .  once inside , shane becomes seduced by the club's dizzying vortex of sex and drugs .  he has such a good time that he doesn't want to leave , so he seeks employment as a busboy .  he quickly becomes friends with greg ( breckin meyer ) and anita ( salma hayek ) , a married couple who work along side of him ; greg's a fellow busboy with aspirations to make the big money as a studio 54 bartender , while anita checks coats but desires a recording contract to call her own .  after rubbing elbows ( among other things ) with a renowned socialite ( sela ward ) and gaining the personal interest of rubell , shane begins to ascend to the upper echelons of 54 .  but fame doesn't come without a price .   " 54 " 's major shortcomings lie within its handling of the supporting players - at a slim hour-and-a-half , the film is too short to take on such a multi-character focus , and more than a few balls are dropped in the resulting juggling act .  alleged last-minute edits and reshoots are more than likely to blame for the occasionally rushed development and ambiguous interaction , since " 54 " sometimes feels like it's missing a scene here or there .  nowhere is this more apparent than in shane's relationship with soap opera actress julie black ( neve campbell ) , a frequent studio 54 patron whom he's long admired from afar .  the romance is prodded along before it has a chance to transform into something special .  that " 54 " works despite these limitations , then , is largely due to the competence and energy with which it's assembled .  sure , it's shallow , slick , sanitized portrait of a bygone age , and sure , we've seen the rags-to-riches story gazillions of times , but debut director and screenwriter mark christopher keeps things moving with lively snapshots of the studio 54 hustle and bustle and an even livelier cast to inhabit his bouncy vision .  the film boasts some fine comic creativity , the pinnacle of which is disco dottie ( " the wedding singer " 's ellen dow ) , an elderly dancing queen who plays the loving grandmother in public , but slides up to shane behind 54's closed doors and asks for a " funky little treat . "  the solid , sexy cast smooths out - if only while you're caught up in the film - any rough spots belonging to their alter-egos or the plot .  newcomer phillippe has the charisma and joisey accent down pat ; he and campbell , as fetching as ever , look so good together it's a shame their subplot goes nowhere .  meyer exhibits the congenial appeal that made him a delight to watch in " clueless " ( he was the stoner with the joker-smile ) , while hayek simply sizzles , especially when leading a dance class with the mantra , " one , two , three , attitude ! "  sherry stringfield , unidentifiable under big '70s hair , takes on her first big-screen gig since she left " er " as rubell's accountant , but she's criminally underused .  as the droopy-eyed , drug-addled steve rubell , myers is worth the price of admission alone .  when he's not playing the life of the party , the ex- " saturday night live " comedian strips away all of rubell's confidence and swagger to show a man desperately trying to fill his empty , unhappy life with exorbitance ; it's a moment worthy of pity when , while lounging on a bed of money and vomiting from a particularly heavy evening , he attempts to seduce one of his employees .  and while his performance is largely serious , myers mixes the empathy with a delicate " austin powers " -esque wink , thus keeping consistent with " 54 " 's overall feel - gaudy , larger-than-life and satisfyingly ornamental , not unlike a giant disco ball . 
neg@ here's a concept -- jean-claude van damme gets killed within the first ten minutes of the movie .  now if that isn't enough to get you to finally see a van damme movie , i don't know what is .  all sarcasm aside , it is certainly a different way to start a movie , of course a few minutes later we find out that the newly deceased had a twin brother -- so lucky us , we get to see more of jean-claude .  van damme #1 works for the russian mafia in the united states and is killed by some of their operatives .  van damme #2 is a police officer in france who finds out that he had a twin brother he never knew about after #1 gets killed in france .  the remaining twin ( the french cop ) goes to the united states to find out who killed his brother and avenge his death .  once there , he hooks up with his deceased brother's girlfriend , played by natasha henstridge , and the two of them set out to discover who the murderers are .  jean-claude's acting abilities don't seem to be up to the usual lackluster standards in this movie .  in other words , just in case you missed the sarcasm , his acting is worse than normal .  on the upside , natasha henstridge is in this film , and she does what she did best in species -- she gets naked .  sadly , this is probably the high point in the movie .  she is actually a decent actress , but didn't improve as much as i thought she would after species .  this is the typical van damme movie , with jean-claude doing a variety of high end martial arts moves on his opponents .  nothing new here , and certainly nothing we haven't seen in every other van damme movie .  simply put , there is absolutely nothing new about this movie .  it has a retread plot -- this isn't the first time jean-claude has played twins .  he still can't act .  we all saw natasha's breasts in species ( although this is one repeat performance i'm not complaining about ) .  this is pretty much like every movie that van damme has ever been involved in -- sub par . 
pos@ wong kar-wei's " fallen angels " is , on a purely visceral level , one of the most exciting films i've seen in a long while .  unfortunately , wong seems more interested in experimenting with his camera than creating tangible characters for the audience to root for .  ordinarily , that alone would be enough to sink a movie , but in the case of " fallen angels " , this is not so .  every shot in this film is exciting just to * look * at .  wong does really interesting things with the camera , but he doesn't allow the pyrotechnics to completely take over , as was the case with last years dismal " knock off " ( which contained a shot of a foot entering a shoe .  ugh . )  the movie follows three pairs of lost souls as they struggle to find some meaning in their lives .  i can't say much more than that as i didn't really know what was going on most of the time .  in fact , it wasn't until about halfway through the movie that i was able to distinguish between each character .  the constantly moving camera doesn't really allow for the audience to associate with any one character .  we're always kept at a distance from these people , i suppose in order to further add to the feeling of alienation felt by the characters .   " fallen angels " is a refreshing change-of-pace from most hollywood films , which never bother to try anything different , at least on a visual level .  in fact , i'd go so far as to say that " fallen angels " is more challenging visually than any mainstream hollywood film i've ever seen .  sure , there's directors like robert rodriguez who enjoy turning violence into operatic orgies of death , but to see a filmmaker like wong who actually assaults the senses with images is truly something worth celebrating .  but if wong wishes to become a legendary filmmaker , he needs to work on incorporating an actual story into those awesome images .  there were far too many instances during " fallen angels " in which i asked myself , " now who are these people again ?  is this that first couple or the second couple ? "  it was impossible to keep track .  perhaps he could let the audience know right away which character is which , by introducing them to us with " name cards " , as in scorsese's " mean streets " .  that's really besides the point , though .  wong kar-wei has proven himself , through very few films , that's he's a movie-maker to watch .  let's just hope that he hones his storytelling skills with his next few movies . 
neg@ david spade has a snide , sarcastic sense of humor that works perfectly on the tv sitcom just shoot me .  it also served as a good showcase for him when he co-starred , opposite the late chris farley , in tommy boy and black sheep .  lost and found marks the comedian's first attempt at going solo in a movie , and it also reveals that when spade doesn't have a reliable back-up system , his brand of humor seems more desperate than one may expect .  david spade is not the problem with lost and found .  he plays dylan ramsey , the sweet main character , to the best of his abilities .  the story revolves around dylan's obsessions with his beautiful new neighbour , lila dubois ( sophie marceau , from braveheart ) , and her terrier named jack .  dylan believes that the best way to a woman's heart is through her dog .  and so he kidnaps jack , planning to stage a fake rescue , in hope to win lila over .  there are three good things about lost and found .  the first is spade .  the second is sophie marceau , a lovely actress who's been planted into the wrong movie .  lastly , there's the dog , who is used here in a similar context to puffy from there's something about mary .  unfortunately , director jeff pollack finds more humor in putting jack through a cycle in the drier than he does with simply making him look cute .  this kind of physical humor is dead .  pollack does everything but beat the poor pooch with a baseball bat to get laughs , and this procedure is cheap , unfunny and resoundingly cruel .  this is where i start to get fuzzy .  also in this unusual blend is ( apparently ) a sweet-natured love story between dylan and lila .  given the mean-spirited comedy that the movie is obviously striving for , i found this hard to swallow .  and , why does dylan even deserve someone like lila , after kidnapping her precious dog and putting it through such pain ?  predictably , lost and found opts for a happy ending , one that feels so sentimental , gooey , and rings so false that it sets off a siren in your head that makes you feel a bit cheated .  david spade ( who also co-wrote the movie ) tries hard , so very hard , to make this project amusing .  there are some choice scenes that are quite funny , but the movie is only sporadically funny .  patrick bruel plays the stock character of rene , the pompous jerk who also wants to win lila over , with his good looks and money .  jon lovitz and martin sheen are welcome additions in two tiny supporting roles .  despite a few positive attributes , lost and found just doesn't work .  if you're searching for an enjoyable romantic-comedy , you could do far better than this obvious , misguided failure that shows a blatant disregard for what it's trying to present . 
pos@ the summer movie season is always the biggest and brightest season for movies throughout the year .  we are introduced to blockbuster hits that are usually trashed by critics , loved by the people , and make tons of money at the box office .  this year , the tradition continues with an update on the universal 1932 classic , the mummy .  i have always been a sucker for this kind of monster movies , and i always seem to be the only critic who really likes them .  that tradition continues as well with this fun special effects extravaganza .  in the mummy , the up and coming brendan fraser stars as the adventurous explorer rick o'connell .  he teams up with a curious , clumsy librarian named evelyn , played by rachel weisz , to find the mysterious city of the dead , hamunaptra .  evelyn loves egypt , and would truly like to visit the city that people call a fable .  rick has claimed he has been to hamunaptra during a battle , and that's why she chose him to lead her there .  also tagging along on the journey to the city of the dead is evelyn's brother , jonathan , played by john hannah ( sliding doors ) .  now in hamunaptra , the three uncover " the book of the dead . "  the curious evelyn unlocks the book , reads from it , and now the body of the ancient egyptian imhotep ( arnold vosloo ) becomes alive and is out to kill the ones who opened and read from the book .  along with imhotep arising from the dead , the ten curses of egypt become in full effect , launching unbelievable forces against the three and another group who set out to find hamunaptra .  not only is imhotep furious with those who awoke him , he is also out to restore the life of his girlfriend that lost her life long ago in ancient egypt .  don't expect huge things out of the mummy , but just expect to have a good time .  this movie is extremely campy and plays out like an old horror film with beefed up special effects , which may turn off some viewers .  on the other hand , this type of film is one of my favorites , but that's up to you to decide .  there is one thing that definitely not campy or corny about the mummy though .  the state of the art special effects take you into a completely different world .  we are dazzled by faces rising out of the desert , swarms of beetles and locusts , and even creatures crawling under a human's skin .  these may have been in other movies before , but not like in the mummy .  as of now , the mummy holds the title for best special effects of this year , but all this could change when star wars episode 1 : the phantom menace is released into theaters across the country .  in the past , brendan fraser has played mainly comedic roles .  when playing " george " in disney's george of the jungle , he was mainly not known by anyone .  i would say that gods and monsters is the film that gave him a name , and now the mummy will give him a name amongst teens .  in the mummy , fraser gets to play an action hero , and i liked him in this sort of role over the comedic role , as in the films blast from the past and george of the jungle .  although brendan fraser is great , rachel weisz gives the best performance among the cast .  weisz really reminded me of a character from an old , horror film .  the way she acts , looked , and talked all reminded me of someone not from this time .  evelyn is probably the only character that was likable , considering that the other characters , like john hannah's , didn't get much personal attention .  in many films , when different genres are mixed , the mixing usually works , and i like it for the most part .  in the mummy though , not all of the mixing works .  there are some scenes that have a lot of potential horror , some with potential comedy , some with potential drama , and some with potential pure action , but the film tries to mix them together too often for the mixing to work .  the mummy could have gotten an " a " rating from me if it had gone purely with one of these .  i didn't mind the corny one-liners here and there during action sequences , but it certainly could have done without them .  the cinematography is amazing in the mummy .  particularly in one scene depicting ancient egypt , we are taken into a very fun portrayal of egypt , mummies , and the treasures left behind by the ancient egyptians .  the costume design in the film is also up there with the great cinematography .  from ancient egyptians outfits to original troops outfits , the costumes are always top notch .  the bottom line- with the mummy , the summer is off to its usually great start . 
neg@ i have a confession .  even though i am a movie junkie-i saw eye of the beholder and yet i still watch movies-i've never seen any of the original godzillas .   ( note that godzilla 2000 is not a sequel to the u . s . godzilla released in 1998 ; it's the american release of a 1999 godzilla flick called gojira ni-sen mireniamu . )  so , part of me was excited as i drove to the local multiplex to see godzilla 2000-the latest entry in an almost 50-year old franchise .  this was a long-awaited treat .  i was expecting a goofy good time , complete with bad dubbing , science fair level sets and a ludicrous plot line .  the last thing i expected was for the movie to be so ? boring .  i can only imagine what the theatre full of kids i saw this with felt .  you do get all of the " so bad they're good " traits so normally associated with the franchise .  but you have to sit through a snoozer plot that has the organization of a rorschach blot .  it's a deal i wasn't willing to accept .  hiroshi kashiwabara and waturu mimura's script crams in way too many details , and in many cases , fails to follow up on them .  the maneuver is not only disconcerting , but gives the movie a permanent logy , weighty feel .  godzilla starts off destroying power plants and then just stops .  was it a whim ?  a bold political statement ?  i don't know .  its foe , an ancient meteor that looks like prudential's logo , doesn't just fight the beast from the far east .  no , it's got to have life-saving powers , a plot to erase " the data " from japan , a desire to clone and the ability to become a spaceship and then some kind of tentacled space creature .  there's a battle between the head of the godzilla prediction unit ( takehiro murata ) and a slimy government official ( hiroshi abe ) over the handling of godzilla , and personal issues .  and then there's the plucky news photographer and blah , blah , blah .  it's like watching magnolia all over again-except without the good writing , keen sociological insight and aimee mann songs .  what a waste .  when the talking and the plot points stop hurtling at you , godzilla 2000 does the job-it's entertaining and goes down easy .  the action scenes are cheesy in their grandeur though a little sluggish .  the dubbing is nice and awful , with murata sounding like he's in constant need of a cough drop .  as for the dialogue , one line summarizes the goofiness factor : " did anyone see that flying rock go by ? "  this movie also marked the first time since the three stooges that i've heard the word " imbecile " used in casual conversation .  though the summer movie season is drying up and godzilla 2000 has its moments , i wouldn't take kids to see it .  they'll probably end up asking more questions than charlie rose . 
pos@ there exists a litany of differences between a successful action movie and a successful suspense movie .  action movies are typically devoid of plot other than a simple byline which can string together several explosive sequences , while suspense movies hinge on plot and subtlety and the ability to bring everything full-circle .  for fans of both genres , however , realism is key .  action fans want to know that the weapons and methods their heroes are using are authentic , and suspense fans want everything to fall into an explainable framework by the movie's end .  on this advice , director john frankenheimer ( the island of dr .  moreau ) strives for realism in an interestingly dynamic balance of suspense and action for his latest thriller , ronin .  the depth of intrigue in ronin is quite amazing , considering the fare that's fallen into the same category over the last few years .  the script , written by j . d . zeik in his big-screen debut , approaches levels of complexity that had people spinning away from mission : impossible two years ago .  a certain number of people will be lost by this , but afficianados will appreciate it all the more and return multiple times .  frankenheimer masters the script with poise , and tells us a dark but stoically realistic tale of a group of post-cold war mercenaries working to earn their paycheck .  his ability to convey feeling and character while promoting explosiveness and tense atmosphere works well here , and ronin becomes a better movie because of it .  robert de niro headlines this cast of noteworthies in a performance that is the most outstanding of his in quite some time .  he takes command and offers much gravity as the ex-spy sam , a man who's called to france to help a shady operations controller named dierdre ( natascha mcelhone ) recover a package .  the package becomes the central motivator for the entire cast , especially once the requisite double-crossing begins , and its role is skillfully penned by zeik .  at times , however , zeik's tale becomes almost too reminiscent of mission : impossible - de niro might easily become tom cruise , the package might become cruise's computer disk .  fortunately , the focus here is almost entirely on the package , whereas in mission the script was more concerned with the double-cross and why it happened .  the action content is impressive , and it lives up to the hints given in previews .  the only fans who will be disappointed are those who expect full-blown combat scenes and instead are forced to suffer through moments of slowness .  ronin does take a degree of intelligence to follow all of the nuance from start to finish , but even the uninitiated will be able to keep a grasp on most characters mand subplots .  the suspense tapers off considerably by the end , a bit of a drawback because of its height at the movie's open .  considering these factors it's good to see that ronin was a project that turned out well , and it's another good bet this month .  since quality is usually sparse during the early fall months , it's definitely worth the visit . 
neg@  " tina ! ! ! fetch me the axe ! ! ! "  a favourite book of mine called the golden turkey awards relates the story that when mommie dearest was unleashed upon unsuspecting audiences back in 1981 , paramount soon realised they had a problem on their hands .  it wasn't just the film's disappointing box office performance .  indeed , in the coming years some people would be going back to see it two , three , even six times .  no , the main problem was that what was intended as a serious biopic of screen queen joan crawford was turning into the laugh riot of the year .  in a desperate attempt to capitalise on this unexpected turn of events , some publicity hacks dreamed up outrageous print advertisements screaming : " mommie dearest : the biggest mommie of them all ! " .  executives at paramount were appalled and soon had the ads withdrawn , but it was all too late .  mommie dearest was already cementing its place in camp cinema history .  unfortunately , faye dunaway's energetic , at times ridiculously over-the-top performance is about the film's only redeeming feature .  based on daughter christina crawford's trashy biography , mommie dearest chronicles a series of mainly private events in the life of her moviestar mother .  if you believe this movie , it was a life was racked by obsession , lonliness , child abuse and rampant egomania .  the film begins with crawford adopting two children , and concludes in the office of her lawyer where her now grown-up daughter and son find out they have been left out of their mother's will .  joan always wanted her kids to be able to fend for themselves , you see .  but that's about the only thread in the narrative that manages to survive to the film's end .  the script - laboured over by four writers , a bad sign in itself - is a poorly connected series of episodes that builds little dramatic momentum .  frank perry's direction is no more than competent , and dunaway's bitchy lines aside , the dialogue is flat and uninvolving .  in fairness , the film's second half ditches some of the cartoon hysterics and does develop a degree empathy for its characters .  when the adult christina moves out of home into her own modest dwelling , joan visits and keeps in touch , not helping her financially but encouraging christina's own acting and career ambitions .  crawford does seem to care about her daughter , but you can sense the emotional distance and feel some of their pain .  you also get glimpses of what the film could have been in the hands of better writers .  ah , but there is dunaway's performance .  and what a delicious piece of campery it often is .  having just been sacked by her studio after a run of box office duds , crawford storms home late at night and proceeds to go ballistic in the garden .  she has the maid drag the kids out of bed to come down and clean up the mess she's making .  spotting a young tree she doesn't like the look of , she turns to the trembling christina and utters the immortal line " tina ! !  fetch me the axe ! ! "  with which she proceeds to enthusiastically dismember the poor sapling .  in the film's most outrageous scene , joan realises that some of her daughter's clothes are hanging on wire coat hangers .  oh dear !  sounds like the perfect excuse for another temper tantrum , doesn't it ?  this time she gives her daughter a horrible beating while delivering another classic outburst : " no . . . wire . . . hangers . . . . ever ! ! ! ! " .  and later , when the board of her late husband's company pepsi cola tries to divest her of her directorship , she displays a superb grasp of business etiquette by jumping to her feet and roaring : " don't fuck with me , fellas ! ! " .  oh joy !  something of a camp classic , then , but if that's not you're cup of tea then mommie dearest doesn't have too much to recommend it .  better you see the real crawford in the women ( 1939 ) , mildred pierce ( 1945 ) or whatever happened to baby jane ( 1962 ) .  great films distinguished by great performances , and a far more eloquent testament to this great woman than frank perry's shrieking piece of tabloid froth . 
pos@ the reunion film is not an original idea in any way , shape , or form .  it's been done throughout film history over and over again , and has become one of the many sub-genres , like the prep school sub-genre , the angst-filled teen sub-genre , and the slasher sub-genre .  what makes " peter's friends " so remarkable is not how it doesn't follow the rules of this sub-genre , but how it follows it so well , and creates characters that i wouldn't mind hanging with .  what are the rules of the reunion sub-genre ?  well . . . .  1 . you need a group of friends , most of them married or at least dating , and sometimes even married or dating eachother .  2 . you need to have them brought back together over some sort of a crisis .  3 . they are not to have spoken together much since they split apart .  4 . the reunion has to come in intervals divisible by 10 .  5 . they all have to be slightly to highly neurotic .  6 . the reunion has to bring them together , seperate them with little crises , then bring them back together because , after all , they're friends .  7 . there has to be some sex or at least some making out either between the friends or with other people that are there or were invited .  8 . eightly , they're all unhappy or marginally so .  9 . there's some sort of sexual tension amongst some of them that's built up over the years .  10 . the friends are all wildly successful in the world of entertainment and the arts , sometimes internationally so .  11 . the film is filled with nostalgic radio hits from the time when they were friends , sometimes causing them to get together in dance/song .  since it follows these rules so closely , it will probably be ( and has been ) coined off as just a " british 'big chill . ' "  and in some ways it is .  both follow the rules , as i said , and both feature lots of bitching , big confessionals , and broken relationships .  but while " the big chill " was , at least to me , a tad too whiny and unsatisfying , " peter's friends " hits its mark , making this film funny , dramatic , and poignant .  the friends of peter's were all in the same theatre group back in '82 , performig wildly outrageous british acts for people far too stuck up to enjoy them ( the opening scene has them all dancing in tux tops and tutus ) .  after peter's ( stephen fry ) wealthy father ( richard briers , hardly on screen enough to register , but oh well ) dies , leaving a giant mansion to him , he has to decide whether or not to keep it .  not sure what to do with it immeadiately , he decides to throw a giant reunion party , inviting back all his old chums .  of course , all or most of his chums follow the tenth rule .  andrew ( kenneth branagh , also directing here ) is an actor who's unhappily married to a tv star , carol ( co-writer rita rudner ) .  maggie ( emma thompson ) is a successfuly publisher of self-help books , but looks like she needs them more than her customers , as she is lonely and unhappy .  roger and mary ( hugh laurie and imelda staunton , who were also married in " sense and sensibility " ) are married , and are the most successful creators of jingles in the uk , but have suffered a tragedy as one of their newly born twins has recently died .  and sarah ( alphonsia emmanuel ) is as promiscuous as ever , having a new boyfriend as of two weeks named brian ( tony slattery ) who's married and wants a divorce because of her , giving her doubts .  as for peter , things seem okay . . .  the film features lots of inner-friend jokes , and even some old theatre anecdotes ( which i at least find a lot of fun in , as i've done lots of theatre myself ) .  and there are big confessions , brawls between the friends , and by the end , almost everyone is unhappy , even though some have resolved their problems long before the end ( which i kinda dug ) .  the final twist would seem forced an anti-climactic , but for some reason , i felt the same way the rest of the friends did .  maybe it's because the people in this film are so likable that i just wanted to join their clique .  that's really what makes " peter's friends " so lovable : the way you just want to hang with a group of friends who can be so dysfuntional sometimes , but when someone's in crisis , can come together wonderfully for one another .  it's when you have a giant crisis like this and people want to selflessly help you out instead of subtely pushing you away that makes you realize you have true friends , and these people are true friends .  not to mention kenneth branagh is able to make the film seem nostalgic for the 80s ( a decade i grew up in , unfortunately ) without taking us outside of the 90s .  there are some 80s classics and anti-classics like tears for fears " everybody wants to rule the world , " but unfortunately no stupid/fun 80s songs ( i think if i ever did an 80s reunion film , i'd put some crap go gos song on , or at least some good old " come on eileen " ) , but this is the british 80s we're talking about .  oh well .  but anyway , the direction is pretty good , although nothing amazing .  branagh's forte is really making shakespeare fresh and magical , but at least he's very good with making a less ambiguous film like this .  the writing is good from rita rudner and martin bregman , with lots of good one-liners , and even some really bad but good puns ( to mock the fact that andrew lives in l . a . , peter , while cutting some logs , asks him is he has wood in l . a . , and andrew says , " no , but we have hollywood " - punishment like that ) .  the actors , as in most speaking movies , are better than their material , though , with some stand-out performances to the six friends , as well as the outsiders like slattery , rudner , and phyllida law as the old housekeeper of the peter's mansion .  a little note should be made about hugh laurie's performance , as he looks like he took some massive doses of prozac before doing this - i mean , i've never seen him actually act this dramatically .   " peter's friends " is a really enjoyable film which makes people like me pine for some sort of future reunion , although i don't know what kind i'll have ( like most people , i don't look forward to my high school reunion ) .  because of the way these friends are still able to maintain the same amount of care they have for one another and after such a long period of seperation , i just look forward to the day when i can have friends like that . 
neg@ deceiver is a plot twist in search of a movie .  this overly constructed film succeeds in having many surprises , and , being true to its title , being deceptive .  but there is little in the film that is worthy of deceit .  braxton ( chris penn ) and kennesaw ( michael rooker ) are two cops investigating the brutal murder of a prostitute ( renee zellweger ) .  their lone suspect is wayland ( tim roth ) , a wealthy young man whose phone number was found in the hooker's pocket .  however , a routine lie detector test turns against the investigators , as the crafty wayland somehow turns the tables .  braxton and kennesaw are forced to confront their own troubled lives .  braxton is a gambling addict in deep to mook ( ellen burstyn ) , a local bookie .  kennesaw is bitter about his marriage to a socialite ( rosanna arquette ) , believing his wife to be unfaithful .  the plot is twisty and complex , with lots of lengthy flashbacks , and plenty of surprises .  however , there are times when it is needlessly complex , and at least one instance the storytelling turns so muddled that the answers to important plot points actually get lost .  take a look at l . a . confidential , or the film's more likely inspiration , the usual suspects for how a complex plot can properly be handled .  the dialogue in deceiver is as overcrafted as the plot .  for example , the film tells a few substories ( such as the tale of a woeful absinthe bender , or an alternative telling of how van gogh lost his ear ) , but they are so flat and so plastic that they come off as prefabricated and unbelievable .  there's never the sense that these are real characters engaging in conversation .  they appear to be nothing more than words on a screenplay .  the characters , themselves , are rather pathetic and despicable .  not one of them is an ounce sympathetic , and as a result , the labyrinthine plot is all for naught .  what does it matter who is guilty of what and why ?  writer-directors josh and jonas pate seem to desire to emulate the coen brothers' masterwork blood simple , or the wachowski brothers' less worthy bound .  but , while they have got the plot twists down cold , they need to work on characterization and dialogue . 
pos@ capsule : a short punchy action sequel to the two dinosaur films made by steven spielberg .  joe johnston directs a straightforward story of an excursion back to the island of the dinosaurs .  it lets us see some new dinosaurs ( is that an oxymoron ? ) and gives us a nice and generally reasonably written adventure .  the film is neither ambitious nor pretentious .  i had a good time .   , low +2 ( -4 to +4 )  here goes my credibility .  this is a film on which i expect to be in a minority .  i liked the third jurassic park film .  i even liked the second jurassic park film .  in a lot of ways jurassic park : the lost world was a creative three-way braiding together of michael crichton's novel the lost world , arthur conan doyle's novel the lost world , and the classic silent film version of the doyle .  jp2 was an adventure , as doyle said , " for the boy who's half man or the man who's half boy . "  that is what all the jurassic park films are .  expecting them to give the viewer insights into the human condition is like expecting your car to vacuum your house .  the classic adventure films like gunga din or king solomon's mines had under-written characters also .  jurassic park iii is an all out adventure on an island inhabited by dinosaurs .  the characters are a little more complex than they at first appear to be , and even that is a little more complex than i was expecting .  some of the characters who start out looking stupid and useless prove to be neither as the film proceeds .  that degree of complexity combined with those very realistic looking dinosaur effects is just about as much as i require .  i feel i got my money's worth .  the story opens with eric ( played by trevor morgan ) and friend parasailing near the forbidden island of isla sorna off costa rica .  this was the research island where the dinosaurs were created for the now defunct jurassic park .  they hope , no doubt , to get a look at the island's dinosaurs from a safe height .  the height is safe , but driving the boat in the water is not .  the two soon find themselves in trouble and have to ditch their parasail onto the island where they do indeed get a better look at the dinosaurs than they had intended .  flash to the united states and someone is offering to fund paleontologist alan grant ( sam neill ) in his research if he will go and fly over isla sorna and act as a guide .  he has said that no force on earth or heaven could get him back near real dinosaurs .  but again money convinces him to drop what he is doing and go .  doing the convincing is a wealthy and eccentric couple ( william h . macy and tea leoni ) who has been just about everywhere else in the world and wants the adventure of seeing real dinosaurs .  they too plan to see the island from a safe height grant is relieved to learn .  he will fly over this island at a safe altitude just this once .  right .  guess what happens next ?  jp3 probably functions better as a sequel than jp2 .  first it has alan grant and ellie sattler ( laura dern ) back rather than the much less appealing ian malcolm .  sattler has a much smaller part in jp3 , but is still present to tie this story to the first .  curiously each film seems to arrange to have a signature scene with characters holding on to some large metal object that is about to fall some great distance .  one thing that does not quite fit with the earlier films is just as grant discovers that raptors may be able to talk to each other , suddenly they seem to be doing it all the time .  they did not appear to be conversing in the previous films .  of course , these raptors look a little different also , so perhaps they are a different related species .  not only are they more intelligent than in the past films , they are also more sympathetic .  in this story they are not just killing machines , they have reasonable motives for what they do beyond nutrition .  this time around they may be a little too anthropomorphized .  each new film in the series introduces us to some new dinosaurs , of course .  in this film a major threat is from a spinosaurus , not as common or as popularly known as a tyrannosaurus , but larger and presumably more nasty .  it has a crocodile's head and the body that looks like a dimetrodon walking upright .  perhaps as an economy measure or just to create a mood the visual effects team frequently obscures our view of the dinosaurs .  sometimes they just move too fast to see .  occasionally darkness or fog obscures our vision .  a few times we get unconvincing matte shot , particularly of the laboratory .  but there is less money on the screen in terms of dinosaur effects than in the two previous films .  the musical score by don davis borrows heavily from john williams's score for the first film .  joe johnston , who directs , already has to his credit two very good films i recommend the rocketeer and october sky .  a team including alexander payne and jim taylor known for election writes the screenplay .  the film they have made is a long way from great cinema , but it still is fun .  if you get a thrill from seeing what look very much like live dinosaurs alive today , the film is for you .  i rate it a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low +2 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
neg@ everybody in this film's thinking of alicia .  no , this is not a documentary on those of us after we first saw the " cryin' " video .  this is one of those erotic thrillers , but not like one starring shannon whirry or shannon tweed .  first off , there's zero sex , almost no nudity , and it's not as well-plotted as one of those tweed flicks .  well , anyway .  the " plot . "  alicia plays , well , the babysitter , who is taking care of some kids one night while the parents ( j . t .  walsh and lee garlington ) go out to a party .  the film , trying to be like one of those introspective erotic thrillers , shows every characters' thoughts , except alicia's .  the thing is alicia's in most of them in most cases , and the thoughts aren't too kosher .  first off , there's her boyfriend ( jeremy london , who gave one of the all-time lousy performances in " mallrats , " and is only a notch better here ) , who's a dorky kid who hangs out with a kind of bully , played by nicky katt from " suburbia " ( who shows he's got that quiet creepiness down pat once again ) .  they decide they want to crash her babysitting job , looking for the typical babysitting hanky-panky .  somethine like that .  the film intercuts between the subplots ( alicia babysitting , nicky and jeremy , the party ) and each characters' thoughts .  we get to see jeremy and nicky's dreams of doing a little threeway with alicia , j . t .  thinking of coming home to find alicia naked in the bathtub ( she has it all covered up , the little tease ) , and , worst of all , lee garlington dreaming of that hunk , george segal .  it even shows them in bed together .  yea .  i so wanted to see george and lee garlington in bed , though i guess i'm used to george after seeing her and mary tyler moore fooling around in " flirting with disaster . "  the ending is some kind of big tragedy thing , but come on .  like we care about any of the characters .  the only interesting one is alicia , mainly because she's alicia , and we mostly see her in the fantasies .  so i guess she's some kind of mystery or something .  but she is never explored further .  so , basically , this film is just a series of mastabatory images , sometimes featuring a non-nude alicia ( once again , sadly ) , sometimes featuring a scantily-clad george segal ( once again , sadly ) .  i watched this on one of those free previews of showtime or cinemax one night , and let me tell you , it is the only way to watch this film .  i mean , there's a reason they put these kinds of films on late at night : they're just as good as sleeping pills .  and this one is one big fat waste of time , even for an alicia film . 
pos@ titantic , writer and director james cameron's much anticipated and sometimes ridiculed $200 , 000 , 000 epic , arrives shortly into the theaters so the question naturally arises , whether the film is worth it ?  as a business proposition , it seems hard to see how it can ever break even , but as a movie it is nothing short of wonderful .  if you've already neatly categorized it as yet another disaster movie a la volcano or the poseidon adventure , think again .  the movie is both a great love story told with the disaster as a backdrop and a portrayal of one of the world's most memorable disasters made real and personal by seeing it through the eyes of two young lovers .  in either case , it is filmmaking at its best .  when we entered the press screening , my wife asked the publicity rep if there would be an intermission since the film runs three and a quarter hours long .  he said no but that the time would go by so fast she'd never notice the length .  amazingly , he was right .  titanic is one of the few long films that doesn't suffer because of it .  the lush picture , filmed by russell carpenter in 70mm , opens in the present with two diving subs exploring the wreck of the titanic on the bottom of the ocean .  fortune hunter brock lovett ( bill paxton ) leads the expedition looking for the world's most valuable diamond necklace that went down with the ship , known back then as " the ship of dreams . "  the necklace's hundred-year-old former owner , rose dewitt bukater ( gloria stuart ) , finds brock to tell him her story .  although almost all of the movie happens in flashback , one of the engineers shows the elderly rose exactly how the ship was sunk .  using a computer simulation , the movie takes the time to explain what will happen later , which adds immensely to making a lucid story out of what would have otherwise been hopelessly confusing .  after twenty minutes , the story makes its jump to the past as the titanic leaves on her maiden voyage .  in a classic movie theme , the two parts of the ship , first class and steerage ( third-class ) exist in sharp contrast .  the strength of the script is the way it paints the differences between rich and poor without excessive moralizing .  entering the ship on its day out is rose along with her millionaire fiance , cal hockley , played with perfect snobbishness by billy zane .  and thanks to a last minute winning poker hand , an itinerant artist named jack dawson gets himself into a little shared cabin in third class .  even with her own promenade deck , rose feels trapped on the ship , what with an upcoming marriage to a man she loathes .  in contrast , jack can barely contain his euphoria at being on board .  after jack saves rose from committing suicide , they start a brief but impassioned love affair .  never tawdry and rarely explicit , their romance has the power to sweep the audience into the story .  leonardo dicaprio in his best performance ever plays jack with confidence and charisma .  in so many ways , small and large , he makes all the right decisions in his approach to the part .  when he confronts cal , for example , he remains composed and polite and yet subtly undermines every one of cal's supercilious put-downs .  kate winslet gives a wonderfully captivating performance as young rose .  the chemistry between these two academy award nominees , him for what's eating gilbert grape and her for sense and sensibility , is nothing short of astonishing .  from the scene where he embarrasses her by repeatedly asking if she loves her finace to the beautiful one of them hanging off the ship's bow to the one where she embarrasses him by asking him to paint her nude , they dazzle the screen with a pair of mesmerizing performances .  if the film breaks after an hour and a half , which is how long cameron wisely waits to have the iceberg show up , you will still get one of the best films of the year .  peter lamont's sets are more than authentic .  one scene , for example , starts with the planning-to-retire captain , played with insouciance by bernard hill , having his tea on deck .  it then shifts to the ship's massive gears and then to the bright-hot boiler room filled with sweating muscular men shoveling in the coals .  the handsome interior common rooms of the ship resemble a palace more than an ocean liner .  easily the most fascinating part of the story is what happens after the iceberg hits and before the battle with the water begins in earnest .  at first , since the iceberg tears a series of little gashes in the hull , not some big gaping hole , the passengers view the hit as more of curiosity than anything else .  what a lark .  we've struck an iceberg .  now let's get back to our brandy and cigars .  the ship's musicians play like troopers through it all , even after the panic sets in .  after all , they see it as their duty to calm the passengers .  when the musicians are about to die , they politely thank each other for the pleasure of being able to play together , and they mean it .  their civility borders on insanity , but it is touching nevertheless .  the story is so rich that my description has merely touched the surface .  there are more than enough characters to love and to hate , and all of the casting is dead-on .  special effects work best when their presence becomes almost undetectable .  in titanic , for which he created a nine-tenths scale model of the entire ship , cameron strove for accuracy at all costs .  the most dramatic moment in the film happens when the ship breaks in two , and the front section becomes vertical in the water .  people are flung like ants either into the water to be shortly frozen to death or into other parts of the ship to be crushed immediately .  besides being romantic and dramatic , the script includes liberal doses of humor .  from the many deliciously subtle verbal put-downs to the physical comedy , as when jack teaches rose to spit like a man , the show elicits laughter in addition to perhaps a few tears .   " it's good-bye for a little while , " a less than confident father tells his little girl since it was indeed women and children first .   " this boat's for mommies and children .  there'll be a boat in a little while for daddies . "  basically there was a design decision to have fewer than half of the necessary life boats -- it made the decks look too crowded otherwise .  perhaps the sinking is best summarized by one of the guggenheim's on-board the ship .  in the dining room with the lifeboats gone and the ship certain to sink , he is offered a life jacket by one of the crew .   " no thanks , " the elegantly attired guggenheim replies .   " we're dressed in our best and would prefer to go down like gentlemen .  but we would like a brandy . "  titanic runs 3 : 14 .  it is rated pg-13 for tastefully and delicately presented sex and nudity and would be fine for kids twelve and up . 
neg@ walt disney studios may have finally met its match with the lush animation in twentieth century fox's anastasia .  but judging by the latest efforts from the don bluth studios , the visuals are the only thing fox has to brag about .  disney's recent classics have occasionally stretched credibility in such films as pocahontas , the hunchback of notre dame , and to a lesser extent , hercules .  with anastasia , fox has gone so far as to throw all facts completely out the window .  some may say - so what ?  it's just a kid's movie .  well . . .  if you have young kids , beware , as they may be noticeably frightened by the visuals of a corpse-rotting rasputin zombie , whose body parts continually fall off in a disconcertingly real way .  consider yourselves warned .  nevertheless , the animation is quite stunning at times .  don bluth has used computer animation extensively throughout , occasionally rivalling photographic quality .  and yet in other scenes , the hand-drawn material seems of the saturday-morning tv crowd , which leads me to wonder . . .  was this rushed to market to combat disney ?  the plot , as anyone who had read history before knows , concerns the attempt to return anastasia to her royal family after she was lost in the overthrow of the romanovs in 1916 .  not that anastasia is much concerned with what really happened .  as for the plot --- go rent disney's candleshoe .  you'll see 60% of anastasia there . 
pos@ i had lost all faith in pg-13 movies that are intended for teenagers and adults .  the last dozen or so that i have seen have all felt incomplete , as if the most crucial scene was deleted in order to obtain a more lucrative rating .  however , after seeing the creative frequency last week and now the exciting u-571 , my bias is beginning to go away .  both films are as innocuous for younger viewers as they are intellectual for older viewers .  even better , i didn't think either one of these films would be any good from first instincts .  everyone loves surprises .  u-571 looked like another action film using an actual war as an excuse to shoot torpedoes and bullets .  this may be true , but the action is so extraordinary that it is clear director/co-writer jonathan mostow completed his ultimate goal ; to blow the audience's socks off .  set during the early stages of world war 2 when the united states struggled to break the codes of the technologically advanced german u-boats , u-571 follows a small crew of american men who swipe the typewriter necessary to solve the enigma from an enemy ship .  there's only one problem : the american ship they came from and hoped to return to has been shot down stranding the men on a german submarine known as ( you guessed it ) u-571 .  it is now up to the mostly young and inexperienced sailors , led by an interim captain named tyler ( matthew mcconaughey ) , to return the typewriter to america without getting sunk by far superior german ships .  the film starts off very slowly with a somewhat weak opening action sequence and another uneventful half an hour to introduce several of the sailors ( most of whom die when the mission goes awry or just inexplicably disappear ) .  once the crew gets on the u-boat , the movie shifts to another level and never leaves this high energy level until the ending credits roll down .  as soon as the action starts , it does not stop and luckily , because it is so exciting , i didn't want it to stop .  this is not a movie for those wanting to avoid loud noises , from the wonderful , heart-pounding score to the constant yelling of panicking men , make sure you see this at a theater with surround-sound ? otherwise , do not see it all .  the best parts of u-571 are when tyler is forced to make impromptu decisions on how to escape seemingly impossible situations .  throughout the movie , several morals or characters are introduced to make tyler's job as stressful as possible .  germans gun down their own men , tyler's mentor captain dahlgren warns him that a captain has to be prepared to sacrifice even the most beloved soldiers for a victory , another sailor ( erik palladino ) threatens mutiny .  all of these examples , and several others , increase the chaotic atmosphere and the importance of tyler's every move .  they also make u-571 one of the most exhilarating movies i have seen in a while . 
neg@ starring kiefer sutherland ; reese witherspoon & bokeem woodbine i used to think that the conversation was the worse film i had ever seen .  freeway is giving me second thoughts .  freeway is a modern retelling of little red riding hood .  only in the nineties , little red riding hood is a foul-mouthed juvenile delinquent played by reese witherspoon , and the big bad wolf is a serial killer ( keifer sutherland ) .  to top that pathetic premise off -- reese goes to visit granny and you'll never guess who's waiting under the cover's in granny's bed .  keifer sutherland is one of hollywoods most talented , yet underrated actors , and reese witherspoon is exceptionally talented and will most likely become a major star .  so what are they doing in this movie ?  after seeing the end result , undoubtedly they are both asking themselves the same question .  you might be asking yourself why this is such a short review .  the answer is quite simple -- i dont want to waste any more of my time writing or thinking about this movie than absolutely necessary .  i wasted enough of my time just sitting through it .  note to keifer : you wonder why you aren't a bigger star in hollywood ?  because you keep making movies like this .  note to reese : you were great in fear , what happened this time ?  note to both : don't worry about it too much , no one saw this movie anyway .  bottom line -- i'm still shaking my head .  don't waste your time on this turkey .  if you want to see a great keifer sutherland movie , go rent flatliners or young guns .  reese witherspoon's abundant acting talents are used to their full potential in fear , a great thriller .  do yourself a favor and rent one of these movies -- but stay as far away from freeway as you possibly can . 
pos@ one fun activity for parents during the holidays is to suggest an old film and see if they can interest their kids .  although black-and-white films are frequently viewed as suspect , ones in color are greeted with more of an open mind .  and if you can find a colorful action film , even if it is from six decades ago , then there is a real possibility of a take home hit .  so it was in our family when we wandered over to the classic section of our local video store the other day and picked up a copy of the adventures of robin hood , a high spirited version of the walter scott story .  nominated for the 1938 academy award for best picture and winner of three oscars for erich wolfgang korngold's melodramatic music , ralph dawson's fast paced editing and carl jules weyl's lush sets , the film is probably best remembered for errol flynn's charismatic acting as sir robin of locksley , a . k . a . robin hood .  flynn , with his handsome figure and toothy smile , charms the audience while clearly having a high old time himself .  let me cut to the chase and say that the tape was indeed popular in the rhodes household .  the littlest rhodes , jeffrey , age 8 , liked it so much that he viewed it at least three times and maybe more .  i'll let him discuss his fascination with the picture in his usual section at the end of the review .  simply stated , the film derives its success from being one of the best of its genre , the swashbuckler .  robin , with a smile from ear-to-ear , fights off a hundred men without a scratch .  although the picture can be considered as little more than a 1930's james bond , the production values and the acting raise it above that level .  robin hood is a classic story of rich and poor .  robin steals from the rich and gives to the poor as every schoolchild knows .  in this movie , however , he seems much less interested in income redistribution than in fighting for his king and country .  robin , with his courage and athletic skills , serves as a role model for kids .  and with the lovely olivia de havilland playing the dreamy-eyed lady marian fitzswalter , the story has heavy romantic overtones .  filmed in the typical , richly oversaturated colors produced by early technicolor , the flesh tones are overly pink and there few color subtleties , which match perfectly the wonderfully exaggerated acting of the players .  in scene after scene the picture charms the audience .  who wouldn't fall for robin as he shows up incognito to win the archery contest , even if the outcome is so clearly preordained .  and , of course , he doesn't just win , he does so by splitting the other man's arrow .  watching the picture today does provide some jarring moments .  sherlock holmes as the villain , sir guy of gisbourne , for example , just doesn't seem right , even if basil rathbone did have a real-life identity outside of his most famous role .  and then there are those wigs from the makeup department -- so bad , they look like rejects from a mel brooks comedy .  as was popular in the cinema of that era , people die with the most gentle prick of the sword and without any nasty , bloody holes to spoil the wardrobe or the looks .  bad guys are banished rather than killed , and lovers go off hand-in-hand , doing nothing more explicitly sexual than kissing .  the result is a wonderful fairy tale of a movie with delightful , cartoonish figures .  hollywood rarely makes such high quality family films like this anymore , so try to savor the old ones when you can .  the adventures of robin hood runs 1 : 42 .  it is not rated , but containing absolutely nothing offensive , it would get a g rating and is fine for all ages .  jeffrey thinks the film is " great " and gives it * * * * .  he recommends the movie particularly for people who do not likely bloody pictures -- he hates the sight of blood in movies .  his favorite parts are the battles and the ending , and his favorite characters are robin and king richard ( ian hunter ) . 
neg@ disconnect the phone line .  don't accept the charges .  do anything you can to avoid the wretched , melodramatic sisterhood dramedy `hanging up' .  i figured i needed to get in touch with my feminine side , and `hanging up' seemed like an ideal opportunity to do so .  the film features an incredible palate of female talent , and the capability behind the camera brought to mind such sparkling gems as `sleepless in seattle' and `unsung heroes' .  meg ryan , diane keaton and lisa kudrow play a trio of sisters who , once separated by career judgments over family ties , must reunite when their father ( walter matthau ) is admitted into the hospital with alzheimer's disease .  while this may read like an optimum opportunity to rekindle their relationship and reflect with poignancy on the past , the script by sisters delia and nora ephron is exasperating , shapeless dreck teeming with emotional fakery .  `hanging up' has the overall effect of a tele-marketer pestering you for two hours , while you don't have the option of doing as the title suggests .  for the first half-hour , the ephron sisters use telephone conversations for a basis of character development .  this is an annoying and ineffective device .  cell-phones ring every five minutes , and everyone hurriedly rushes along , leaving marginal time for the frustrated viewer to relate to the sisters' issues and problems .  if `hanging up' was an apple pie , then i felt as if we were getting the mere crust of the story .  granted , there are a few genuine and sincere moments in the film .  but they only help to establish that the remainder of the strained emotions are nothing but inferior dramatic muck .  the most outrageous strategy in `hanging up' is that , after a series of largely unrealized attempts at character development , we are expected to exhibit compassion and courtesy toward the sisters as they join for a melodramatic finale .  we are able to identify with eve ( ryan ) , the most open and caring daughter , because she is the one who stayed by her father's side as everyone else moved forward to pursue a impending career .  georgia ( keaton ) , the eldest daughter , is celebrating the fifth year anniversary of her magazine called . . . .  `georgia' .  maddy ( kudrow ) , the soap opera actress , spends time either contemplating her possible path to stardom or nursing her dog .  ryan's convincing performance and diverting cuteness are two of the more agreeable aspects of `hanging up' .  kudrow , so delightfully eccentric as the off-kilter airhead phoebe in `friends' , is totally wasted .  ditto for keaton , who is serving a double shift as co-star and director - a time slot that can be a difficult priority juggle .  her frenzy is apparent .  for a chick flick , there is a distressing lack of chuckles .  the reliable matthau is reduced to chaotic shtick that , given his character's situation , seems more depressing than amusing .  even so , the peak form of humor in `hanging up' is represented by some of matthau's nasty quips and ryan's eternal battle to have the aforementioned pooch swallow a pill .  that about accounts for the three or four chuckles you will expel during the film .  my curiosity has suddenly been tweaked to discover how such a promising and star-studded approach could turn so viciously sour .  but really , it's no mystery .  the predictable , melodramatic filth that is `hanging up' is certainly not the fault of these actresses .  pin it on the screenplay , which attempts to clear up vital issues in three or four minutes , while spending the rest of the running time in an annoying flurry of phone conversations .  it's certainly a far cry from what one would label as a rewarding experience , but `hanging up' should have at least been enjoyable .  uh-uh .  it's a wrong number from the beginning . 
pos@ james cmaeron's breakthrough feature was the first of his films to showcase his obsession with technology and more specfically technology run amok .  for those of you who do not know the plot : in 2029 machines have engineered a nuclear for the expressed purpose of wiping out the human race .  human survivors are systematically hunted down and destroyed .  however , some humans are fighting back led by the heroic john connor .  to stop connor , the machines send a terminator ( arnold schwarzenegger ) back to 1984 to murder connor's mother , sara ( linda hamilton ) , and thus prevent connor from ever being born .  in response , the humans send a protector , kyle reese , played by michael biehn .  images of machines and of humans' reliance on machines dominate the film .  even though the characters know that the benign oil drillers of 1984 will become the ruthless hunter killers of 2029 , humans continue to use the machines .  in the climax of star wars , luke relies on the force alone--his own spiritual power--to destroy the death star .  in the terminator , however , sara must use another machine--a giant hydraulic press--to vanquish her enemy .  cameron seems to be implying that this reliance on technology is inescapable--and he's not happy about it .  unabated technological growth brings about the terminator's other obsession : the apocalypse .  we have plenty of imagery regarding armageddon : thousands of human skulls line the streets of future la .  children watch the flames in a burning television .  when the terminator arrives in 1984 an almost biblical lightning storm precedes him .  even though the " future is not set , " there is no doubt about where the world is headed at the end of the movie : the machines will rise and the humans will have to struggle for their very existence .  all sara can do is await it .   ( cameron doesn't wimp out like he does in terminator 2 )  the end of the world is the human race's own fault , too .  after all it is the humans that created in the evil machines in the first place .  back in 1984 , when the cold war was still in full effect , the film must have been seen as a very apt metaphor for nuclear war ( another obsession of cameron's ) .  these days , one can read a criticism of machine-like behavior in humans .  true , humanizing touches are put into paul winfield's and lance henriksen's detective characters , but the terminator is also able to move through the city undetected .  cameron also draw parallels between the mechanical efficiency between the terminator and reese when they first arrive in 1984 la .  from a technical standpoint the terminator is very well done .  arnold schwarzenegger is a perfect antagonist--unstoppable , merciless , obdurate .  we are not meant to empathize with this ultimate killing machine as we are in some of schwarzenegger's later works ( eg , commando ) , but fear him .  cameron and hurd's script basically depicts a one hour and forty-five minute chase , taking a few moments here and there to explain time travel and develop the romantic subplot .  while we do see the hackneyed dialogue cameron is now so well known for , there is also considerable suspense especially for the first time viewer who may be unsure of kyle reese's intentions .  cameron directs the film at a rapid , kinetic pace .  either the camera is moving or something within the frame is moving--usually both occurs .  the violence is not particularly graphic ( temple of doom's heart-pull scene outgrosses the terminator's ) , but it is brutally staged making it that much more effective .  for a low budget film , the terminator's special effects and art direction ( especially in 2029 la ) are remarkably well done .  special mention should be made of the stop motion effects work at the end of the film depicting the terminator endoskeleton .  it is some of the best stop motion i have ever seen .  one thing that doesn't hold up after all the years , however , is linda hamilton's hairdo . 
neg@ stars : armand assante ( mike hammer ) , barbara carrera ( dr .  charlotte bennett ) , laurene landon ( velda ) , alan king ( charles kalecki ) , geoffrey lewis ( joe butler ) , paul sorvino ( detective pat chambers ) , judson scott ( charles hendricks ) , barry snider ( romero ) , julia barr ( norma childs ) / mpaa rating : r / review :  in the 1982 updating of mickey spillane's 1947 novel " i , the jury , " hard-boiled detective mike hammer is a vietnam vet who drives a shiny bronze trans am , dresses like don johnson in " miami vice " with less pastels , and has sworn off alcohol .  however , he still smokes his lucky strikes , detests all forms of authority , and kills at a whim .  beyond that , the updated film retains little or no resemblance to the original pulpy page-turner by spillane , probably the most infamous and often reviled of all mystery writers .  the movie starts off with a bang : a howler of an opening credits sequence that is a cheap steal from the james bond series , complete with cheesy graphics and an overbearing jazz score by bill conti ( " rocky " ) .  after that , the movie and the book begin the same , with the murder of jack williams ( frederick downs ) , a one-armed detective and hammer's best friend .  hammer declares that he will seek vengeance for jack's death , and with the help of his devoted secretary , the blond and shapely velda ( laurene landon ) , and the alternately friendly / antagonistic police chief pat chambers ( paul sorvino ) , he is immediately on the killer's trail .  here the movie splits completely from the book , and dives into a convoluted and improbable tale of government conspiracy and mind control tactics involving the mafia , the cia , one of hammer's vietnam vet buddies , and a kinky sex clinic .  many of the same characters from the book appear in the movie , but they take on slightly different roles .  for instance , charles kalecki ( alan king ) , a numbers runner and narcotics dealer in the book , turns into a suave mob boss .  and , more importantly , hammer's suspicious love interest , charlotte bennett ( barbara carrera ) , morphs from a run-of-the-mill psychiatrist into the coordinator and founder of the sex clinic .   " i , the jury " is one of several cinematic renditions of spillane's books ( including a 1953 version which was made in 3-d ) , but this film differs from those earlier versions in one major way : it includes all of the sex and violence spillane wrote about that could never be given screen treatment due to hollywood's production code .  although this takes the 1982 version of " i , the jury " closer to the core of the original subject matter , it is in this aspect that the film received the most criticism , because it took this new license to extremes that many argued surpassed what was in the book .  rest assured , the movie not only includes a great deal of nudity , but it is thoroughly violent , especially toward women .  it features one woman having her neck slashed , a set of twins forced to strip before being stabbed to death by a psychotic sexual deviant programmed by the cia ( judson scott ) , and another woman shot point-blank in the belly by hammer himself .  no one would deny that spillane's writing has a definite misogynistic nature , but the movie seems to take it a step further by giving it such glorious screen treatment ; its constant equation of sex and violence , much of which is played with the intention of being erotic , is quite unsettling .  it's no surprise that the movie , like the book , fades to black with a dead woman on the floor .   " i , the jury " had a troubled production and was not well-supported by the studio that made it , which is one explanation why it didn't do well in theaters and many people have forgotten that it was ever made .  the script was written by larry cohen , who is best known for his creatively cheesy but nonetheless effective monster movies , like " it's alive " ( 1974 ) and its two sequels , " q " ( 1981 ) , and " the stuff " ( 1985 ) .  cohen wrote the script thinking he was going to helm the project as well , but he was yanked from the director's chair after only a week's worth of shooting because he was already $100 , 000 over budget .  he was quickly replaced by richard t . heffron , who has worked for the last three decades on a handful of undistinguished movies and dozens of television projects .  heffron was obviously brought in not for his talent , but because he could make the movie rapidly and efficiently .  it shows in the final product .  cohen had personal interest in the updated version of hammer , but heffron has none .  he shot the movie quickly and clumsily , and although some scenes ring true , most of them are flat , trite , and invariably dull .  the movie features numerous car chases , shoot-outs , and stunts , but heffron's background in television is the dominant tone ; despite the graphic violence and full-frontal nudity , " i , the jury , " takes on the air of a made-for-tv quickie , with no real punch or depth .  but the problems in " i , the jury " run deeper than the technical .  the central fault in this updating is mike hammer , whose character was lost in the shuffle while updating from the fifties to the eighties .  because spillane wrote all his hammer mysteries in the first person , hammer's character is central to the tale because all the events are filtered through his persona .  we never really get that impression in the movie -- there is no first-person voice-over narration and some scenes don't have hammer in them at all .  consequently , a great deal of the texture of spillane's storytelling is lost .  the period updating turns out to be a detrimentally bad idea because much of hammer's moral code is thrown to the wind .  despite his characterization as a hard-nosed , violent , misogynistic killer , hammer always stuck fervently to his own moral code .  the title itself , " i , the jury , " refers to his anti-establishment notion of being his own law .  unlike private eyes who seek out the bad guys and then turn them over the police , hammer both pursues the criminal and exacts the punishment .  in this way , he can be seen as " above the law , " but he still adheres strictly to her own personal code of conduct , his own morality .  the movie forgoes that aspect of his character , and hammer comes off not only as amoral in society's terms , but in any terms , especially his own .  if anything , hammer always had his professionalism , but the movie does away with that in the first three minutes by showing him rolling in the sack with the wife of a client who had paid him to find out if that wife was being unfaithful .  maybe the scene was intended for laughs , but it only cheapens hammer's character and is , by all accounts , a lousy way to start the movie .  the blame for hammer's character can't be laid on assante's shoulders , because despite some unnecessary marlon brandon-like mumbling , he delivers a fine performance .  spillane never once described hammer's physical attributes in any of the dozen books in which he appeared , so any actor could conceivably portray him .  of course , because of the lack of written description , those who have read spillane's books will have a strong personal notion of what hammer looks like , and therefore almost any screen incarnation will somehow fall short of expectations ( spillane , who played the character himself in 1963's " the girl hunters , " is generally considered the best of the film hammers ) .  the rest of actors are most un-noteworthy .  with the exceptions of alan king and paul sorvino , everyone who appeared in " i , the jury " were up-and-comers who basically went nowhere .  many of them ended up working in television ( like carrera , who had a short stint on " dallas " in the mid-eighties ) , which only adds to the made-for-tv atmosphere of the film .  maybe someday , someone will manage to get the right elements together and make an effective film rendition of a spillane book , but this is certainly not it . 
pos@ set in the late 80's at the height of yuppie excess and based on the book by bret easton ellis ( who explored the same themes in another book which was also made into a movie , less than zero ) , american psycho puts a new spin on the yuppie " genre " that ellis helped to create .  christian bale is perfectly cast as patrick bateman , a high powered yuppie who hides a terrible secret from his fianc ? e and his colleagues .  it seems that bateman is a serial killer and , unfortunately for his contemporaries , his tenuous grasp on reality is starting to slip .  as he tries to balance his meticulous daily routines with slaughtering co-workers and prostitutes and hiding their bodies , his mental fabric slowly begins to unravel .  i was first introduced to the novel when i was still in high school .  i read an associated press article in our local sunday newspaper detailing the problems ellis was having getting his novel published due to the controversial violence in it .  as usual when anything is controversial i try to seek it out , but i soon forgot about the novel and didn't end up thinking about it again until i stumbled across it a couple of years later at a bookstore .  i picked it up and read it , but was ultimately disappointed because it left more questions than answers .  the movie has a similar effect , but at least it's less cryptic than ellis' novel .  for once , a film has actually turned out to be better than the novel it was based on .  both the book and the film open with bateman describing his fastidious morning preparations ( down to exactly what facial scrubs and exfoliating creams he uses ) but the novel seems to concentrate more on these excesses throughout .  the movie continues to touch upon these things but makes more of a point to immerse us in bateman's impending madness than to detail things as painstakingly as the novel does .  as a result , the film is immensely more entertaining .  lions gate seems to be the studio champion of controversial films ( having picked up kevin smith's catholic-rattling dogma ) and here with american psycho there is no difference .  screenwriters mary harron and guinevere turner had the unenviable task of trying to take a novel about yuppies filled with graphic violence and sex and make a marketable film out of it .  some cuts had to be made to the finished film to keep from getting an nc-17 , mainly involving a sex scene comprising bateman and two women , and initial reports said the film was unwatchable .  thankfully , it is watchable and harron and turner have made one of the most scathingly satirical films this side of south park : bigger , longer & uncut .  side note #1 : co-writer guinevere turner also makes an appearance in the film as an ill-fated acquaintance of bateman's who , after bateman suggests that she start making out with a female prostitute , proclaims that she's not a lesbian nor has any interest in it .  the ironic humor of the scene stems from the fact that turner ( the writer/director of the film go fish and who also assisted kevin smith with parts of his script for chasing amy ) is a lesbian .  it's a subtle in-joke and it's one i found to be pretty humorous .  despite having a rather high profile supporting cast of young up-and-comers ( including reese witherspoon ) , most of the roles are a waste and are the equivalent of extended billed cameos .  the real draw here is christian bale and his over-the-top performance as patrick bateman .  whenever i read a novel i always try to imagine what it would be like as a movie and who would be perfect to cast as the characters .  i always had a hard time trying to decide who i would cast as bateman , but i never thought bale would deliver a performance as perfect as his ends up being .  to say bale runs away with the character is a vast understatement and he proves that he's as adept at chewing scenery as al pacino or rod steiger .  one sequence in particular , involving bateman describing his love for huey lewis and the news' song " hip to be square " right before burying an axe in a co-worker's head , features one of the most eccentric and kinetic performances i have ever seen on film .  side note #2 : despite the fact that huey lewis' " hip to be square " and a pair of phil collins songs appear in the film , don't expect to see them on the soundtrack release .  huey lewis expressly requested that his song , featured in a rather large set piece in the film ( much akin to the use of " stuck in the middle with you " in reservoir dogs ) , not be included on any soundtrack release .  i'm assuming that collins requested the same .  on a similar note , whitney houston's cover of " the greatest love of all " is also involved in a scene comparable to the other two and it is very obvious that it isn't the houston version at all but merely an instrumental version culled from an unknown source .  apparently , houston wasn't as open about the use of her song as the others were .  a bigger controversy than the violence and sex has been brewing since the film's release : that of whether or not patrick has actually committed the crimes we have viewed during the course of the film .  don't look to the book for any answers because it will only serve to confuse you more .  several web sites have been dedicated to the subject but i'm still undecided .  there is evidence both for and against but the most scathing evidence against comes from a scene near the end of the film where bateman goes on a killing spree taking out cops , old ladies , and cleaning staff with equal gusto .  the scene seemed very dream-like and as absurd as the action films it suddenly seems to be parodying ( as an example , bateman blows up a police car very cinematically after firing several shots from a handgun in the general direction of the car ) .  i kept waiting for bateman to wake up and for the film to continue on from there , but bateman never does wake up and the whole sequence , though comic , throws the film off-balance ( which i suppose was the intention ) .  other than the few flaws i have mentioned , american psycho is an incredibly entertaining film ( although you may not leave the movie fully understanding whether or not what has just transpired actually occurred in bateman's reality ) .  i think this movie is destined for greatness as a cult film and deserves the spot it will take as such .  it may not change anyone's life , but it will certainly have an effect .  i know i will certainly hear " hip to be square " in a different context the next time i hear it .  [r] 
neg@ much ado about nothing .  ah , how sweet the irony !  it's accepted wisdom in some circles - among english literature nuts , mainly - that whenever a critic knocks shakespeare they are only doing so through ignorance .  he just doesn't " understand " shakespeare , you will hear them say .  the bard's work is apparently beyond criticism .  what a load of old cobblers .  if these arbiters of public taste think kenneth branaugh's film of shakespeare's " comedy " much ado about nothing is comedy in any modern sense of the word , it's time to get a life .  get monty python .  get woody allen .  get john waters .  whatever .  just get a real taste of some clever , witty , risky comedy .  and banish this nonsense to where it belongs .  drama and tragedy was shakespeare's strength .  to my sensibilities - and i'm no stick in the mud - much ado about nothing resonates with no spark whatsoever .  no kidding : this film ranks among the most embarrassing two hours i have ever spent in a cinema in my 20 years of movie going .  the only thing that stopped me walking out was loyalty to my lady friend , as this was our day out and i hadn't seen her in ages .  but boy , does she owe me one !  i won't spend too much time on the plot .  basically , we follow the trials and tribulations of two would-be couples - one young , the other older .  there's some dark treachery amongst all this , but everyone is so awfully jolly that you'd hardly know it .  mind you , there's nothing wrong with the basic story .  good romantic comedies based on similar premises abound .  nothing wrong with most of the cast , either .  branaugh , emma thompson and denzel washington are all talented performers .  the problem is the script , or more accurately , shakespeare's original text .  light comedy shouldn't be complex .  yet wrapped in elizabethan english , the dialogue becomes difficult to comprehend .  for this alone it will be a problem for modern audiences unschooled in shakespeare and in search of nothing more than a good , undemanding laugh .  the only laughs to escape my belly were brought on by the gloriously inept performance of keanu reeves , the actor once again miscast as a jealous half-brother or something .  but when dissected and understood , what it all boils down to is that this stuff is just so goddamn lame .  this is comedy so clean and nice and corny and so devoid of danger that it leaves this viewer totally cold .  ho , ho , ho , boy likes girl !  ho , ho , ho , men are such klutzes !  ho , ho , ho , she's so awfully clumsy !  oh please !  there's wit in here somewhere , i'm told .  i call it pretentious .  something lightweight striving to be something sophisticated through clever wordplay .  in the end , it's cringeworthy .  watching some of the cinema patrons around me collapse with laughter made much ado about nothing a very weird movie going experience .  comedy ?  bah , humbug ! 
pos@  " you leave little notes on my pillow .  i told you a million times i can't stand little notes on my pillow .  'we are all out of corn flakes - f . u . '  it took me three hours to figure out that 'f . u . ' was felix unger . "  --- a frustrated oscar madison ( walter matthau ) running down a list of his complaints against his roommate felix unger ( jack lemmon ) , in the odd couple .  the classic neil simon comedy ( based on his own stage play ) about suicidal felix ( lemmon ) , who is persuaded by his poker friend oscar ( matthau ) to stay with him in his apartment after felix's wife throws him out and files for divorce .  the hook : oscar is messy and likes his apartment that way , while felix is an obsessive/compulsive neat freak .  the two men , despite their friendship , instantly clash .  movies just aren't as delightfully funny as this one is .  every line of neil simon's dialogue flows like comedic poetry , and all the actors are just perfect in their performances .  lemmon is at his best as the anxiety ridden felix , but it's matthau who shines brightest as oscar , whose world is being invaded and rearranged , mostly against his wishes ( the type of character i always enjoy identifying with ) .  and who can forget that catchy score by neal hefti ?  the best thing about the film ( and this is a testament to the quality of the writing ) is that it's a comedy with substance .  these two men , even while at each other's throats , genuinely care for one another as friends .  when they clash , it isn't cartoonish hatred being displayed , but genuine frustration with the fact that they are such good friends but just cannot manage to co-exist .  movies nowadays , take grumpy old men for example , just don't have that extra spark there .  these days it's just animosity for the sake of comedy .  a television series followed ( starring jack klugman and tony randall ) , which i'll admit i've never seen an episode of in its entirety , and neil simon even scripted the sequel , the odd couple ii , which was released in 1998 .  neither of them compare to this comic masterpiece though .  it's one of the best comedies of all time and easily earns its spot in my top ten favorite films . 
neg@ and i thought " stigmata " would be the worst religiously-oriented thriller released this year .  turns out i was wrong , because while " stigmata " was merely boring and self-important , " end of days " is completely inept on all fronts .  it's a silly , incomprehensible , endlessly stupid mess .  for a guy like me who grew up watching arnold schwarzenegger at his best , it's extremely disconcerting to see where the big man has ended up .  for the first time in recent memory , an arnold action movie ( and " batman & robin " doesn't count ) is no fun at all .   " end of days " is a major stinker .  the movie opens in vatican city , 1979 .  some catholic priests have observed an ancient prophecy , which says that a girl will be born on that night that satan will have targeted for impregnation .  if he impregnates her between 11 and midnight on december 31 , 1999 , the world will be destroyed .  the pope orders protection of this girl , though some priests believe she ought to be killed .  in new york , that very night , a girl is born to fulfill the prophecy .  twenty years later , we meet jericho cane ( schwarzenegger ) , a suicidal ex-cop with a drinking problem .  now working as a security guard for hire , he is protecting a local businessman ( gabriel byrne ) , who is actually possessed by the devil .  an assassination attempt on the businessman by a crazed former priest leads him to the girl satan is after , christine york ( robin tunney ) .  recognizing elements of his own murdered daughter in christine ( including ownership of the same music box , apparently ) , jericho swears to protect her against the devil and the faction of priests looking to kill her .  there are so many problems with this film it's hard to know where to begin , but how about starting with the concept ?  casting arnold in a role like this was a mistake to begin with .  schwarzenegger is a persona , not an actor , so putting him in a role that contradicts his usual strong personality is a bad idea .  arnold has neither the dramatic range nor the speaking ability to pull off a character tormented by conflicting emotions .  in other words , trying to give him dimension was a mistake .  harrison ford , mel gibson , or even bruce willis could have played this role ( they've all played noble and flawed heroes ) , but not schwarzenegger .  there are several scenes that attempt to establish jericho's character ; one has him contemplating suicide , another crying over the loss of his wife and daughter , and even one in which the devil tries to tempt him into revealing christine's location by offering him his old life back .  none of these scenes really work , because arnie isn't up to the task .  the filmmakers would have been better off making jericho a strong , confident character ( like the terminator , for example ) , the likes of which schwarzenegger has excelled in before .  this one isn't at all believable the way arnold plays him .  the supporting cast tries their hardest , and only gabriel byrne makes any impact at all .  as the prince of darkness , he's suave and confident .  he acts like one would expect the devil to act .  the problem is that the script has him doing things that make no sense ( more on that later ) and that undermines him as a powerful villain .  byrne out-performs arnold in every scene they have together ( including the aforementioned temptation bit ) , but this is problematic when it causes the audience to start doing the unthinkable : root for the devil .  byrne's speech about the bible being " overrated " actually starts to make sense , mainly because arnold's attempts at refuting it ( mostly of the " 'tis not ! "  variety ) are feeble at best .  the only problem is , arnold has to win , so in the end , nobody really cares .  kevin pollack plays jericho's security guard sidekick and tries to liven things up with some comic asides , but like most bad action movie sidekicks , he disappears after about an hour .  robin tunney isn't given much to do except look scared .  in fact , all of the supporting players are good actors , but none , save for byrne , is given anything interesting to do .  performances aside , it would be really hard to enjoy this film no matter who starred in it .  this being an action blockbuster , it's no surprise that the worst thing about it is the script , which starts off totally confusing , and when some of it is explained ( and not much of it is ) , it's utterly ridiculous .  why is the devil coming on new year's eve , 1999 ?  because it's exactly 1000 years after the year of the devil , which isn't 666 , it turns out .  some nutty priest accidentally read it upside down , so the real year is 999 , so just add a 1 to the beginning , and you've got 1999 !  if you don't buy this explanation , you're not alone .  it's convoluted and silly at the same time .  the method by which jericho locates christine york is equally ludicrous ( she's christine , see , and she lives in new york , see .   .   . ) , and if that weren't bad enough , there's plenty of bothersome stuff in this film that isn't explained at all .  why can satan kill everyone he passes on the street , but when it comes to snuffing out one drunk ex-cop , he's powerless ?  is he impervious to only one kind of bullet ?  how come he can't control jericho or christine ?  and how did those gregorian monks deal with time zones in their prophecies ?  a clumsy attempt at a joke is made about this , but it's never actually explained .  usually , this sort of thing wouldn't matter in a schwarzenegger flick ( i mean , don't get me started on the time paradoxes offered up by the terminator movies ) , but this time the plot inconsistencies stand out even more than usual because the action is rarely exciting .  there are several predictable horror film clich ? s present in " end of days , " complete with the old " black cat hiding in a cabinet " bit , not that we ever find out what the cat was doing in there .  it gets so formulaic that it's possible for those uninterested in being scared to close their eyes at the precise moment a " boo " will come .  their predictions will rarely be wrong .  the more grandiose action sequences are utterly charmless , partially because we don't care about these characters ( due to the script's pathetic attempts at characterization and setup ) , and also because they , too , don't make any sense .  there's a scene where schwarzenegger gets thrown around a room by a little old lady .  it's good for a few chuckles , but not much else .  supposedly we're to believe she now has super strength by virtue of being controlled by satan , but the script never sets that up , so the scene is merely silly .  none of this is terribly exciting , because all the action sequences are so badly framed that it's often hard to tell why it's happening in the first place , not to mention that they're edited in full-on incomprehensible mtv quick-cut style .  most of them had me scratching my head , rather than saying , " wow , cool ! "   " end of days " is not only silly and confusing , but it's also distinctly unpleasant to watch .  the devil apparently doesn't operate in the more subtle , i'll-convince-people-to-kill-each-other fashion outlined in the bible , but instead enjoys killing people gruesomely in broad daylight .  this doesn't only make him an awfully predictable sort , but it also means that not a single scene in " end of days " goes by without unnecessarily graphic violence , or the odd kinky sexual encounter ( yet another bit that had me scratching my head ) .  if violence is supposed to be shocking , it's not a good idea to throw so much of it into a movie that the audience goes numb .  scenes aren't connected through any reasonable means , so a lot of the time , stuff gets blown up , or people get killed , and i had no idea why .  reasons ?  to hell with reasons !  let's just blow stuff up !  isn't it cool ?  nope , not by a long shot .  this film is thoroughly unwatchable .  it's dull , interminable , and unrelenting in its stupidity .  perhaps arnold needs to make some movies with james cameron to revive his career , because it's not happening with hack peter hyams here .   " end of days " might have had camp value , if only it didn't top itself off with an overly pious ending that nobody's going to buy .  if the movie is going to be serious , the filmmakers should have come up with a decent script .  if it's going to be campy , arnold shouldn't be taking himself so damn seriously ( i didn't actually see him put up on a cross , did i ? ) , and his character shouldn't be such a sad sack .  as it stands , " end of days " is just a bad movie , and an awfully gloomy one at that . 
pos@ jay and silent bob strike back can rightfully be subtitled " kevin smith's greatest hits " for the film is comprised of numerous references and characters from smith's earlier works including , clerks , mall rats .  chasing amy and dogma .  so , be advised : bone up on that cinematic quartet in order to achieve the maximum enjoyment from smith's latest outing .  kevin smith must be a very likable person because several good sports took a ton of kidding in this feature , most notably miramax , the studio whose subsidiary , dimension films , is jay and silent bob's distributor .  others deserving accolades include ben affleck , matt damon , directors gus van zant and wes craven and the mighty george lucas .  this is a laugh-filled , foul-mouthed road film with jay ( jason mewes ) and silent bob ( smith ) hitching to hollywood to sabotage miramax's production of bluntman and chronic , comic book characters based on the two jersey slackers .  jay's convoluted reasoning is that if the film is shut down , people on the internet will stop insulting him and bob , even though it is not him and bob the people are dissing , but rather their comic book counterparts .  no matter , the duo begin their long trek hitching rides across the country .  but first they get some tips from a veteran hitchhiker , played by george carlin , who tells them to follow " the book " - the rules of the road .  of course jay's interpretation immediately gets the duo in trouble with a friendly nun ( carrie fisher ) who offers them a ride .  jay and silent bob contains enough laughs that the movie's weaker aspects - which include a lame subplot about a girl gang of diamond thieves as well as a buffoonish federal park ranger played by will ferrell - can be easily tolerated .  really , how can you not laugh at a film in which our heroes are picked up by the mystery van , and jay has a pot-induced hallucination concerning velma and daphne .  the movie's highlight , though , is near the finale .  in hollywood , jay and silent bob sneak onto the miramax lot where they crash the set and are mistaken for extras of the latest affleck-damon picture , good will hunting 2 : hunting season .  here we are privy to a hilarious conversation between affleck and damon in which the two put down each other's careers and film choices .  and the laughs continue to grow .  next up is jason ( american pie ) biggs and james ( dawson's creek ) van der beek , the actors chosen to portray bluntman and chronic .  the pair mistake jay and silent bob for their stunt doubles .  finally , comes a star wars homage featuring one of the stars of that legendary feature .  this bit will leave you howling .  smith's obvious affection for pop culture icons is evident in the way he shoots these scenes and handles his performers .  he allows them to play it all tongue-in-cheek .  their fun comes through the screen to the audience .  it is too bad that this is jay and silent bob's swan song .  the characters have grown since their supporting role debuts in clerks .  but smith realizes that times have changed , and he doesn't want his creations to overstay their welcome .  so smith has provided them with just the right kind of exit , saving the best for last .  goodbye jay and silent bob .  at least you're going out with a blast . 
neg@ you would think that this film's dismal failure would be due to american filmmakers getting hold of a brilliant british comedy and " americanizing " it .  you'd be wrong , since full blame can be placed on the very folks who wrote and created the series : rowan atkinson , robin driscoll , and richard curtis .  should you ever happen to meet those chaps , do me a favor .  grab them by the hair and yell really loudly in their ear , " what were you thinking ? !  have you ever heard the phrase 'if it ain't broke don't fix it' ? ! "  then walk away .  the film concerns mr . bean ( atkinson ) and his visit to america while escorting the painting of " whistler's mother " to an american buyer ( played by burt reynolds , in the type of bit part that his success in " boogie nights " should hopefully do away with ) .  now how or why mr . bean is sent on this trip makes no sense , and i can't even describe how the film explains it .  the point is that mr . bean comes to america and causes wacky trouble .  problems problems problems , where to begin ?  first , the score music from the tv show has been completely replaced by score that is either at times one note away from the score from " beetlejuice " or one note away from the score from " rob roy " .  then , the song choices are totally uninspired .   " good vibrations " ?   " i love l . a . " ?  wow , don't put any thought into that guys .  also , bean makes way too much noise in the film .  the character doesn't speak much , but in the series you really only heard the laughter of the audience , and maybe the occasional murmur from mr . bean .  each episode was like a chaplin silent movie .  in the film , bean is constantly moaning , grunting , whining , etc . it's annoying , and just plain wrong for the character .  the main problem though is that it's just not funny .  with each episode of the series there would be dozens of really great laughs crammed into less than 30 minutes .  multiply that running time by three however , and the laughs steadily decrease .  they even have the gaul to repeat jokes from the series .  sad , and creatively lazy .  as a series , " mr . bean " only ran for about 13 episodes or so .  why on earth did atkinson and the gang decide it was time to completely rework everything ?  13 half-hour episodes certainly hadn't exhausted all possible situations .  all i can say positively for the film at this point is that it's almost appropriate for all ages , if it wasn't for a couple of scenes where it appears as though mr . bean is having sex with things .  and even that isn't a very positive statement .  please guys , go back to england and go back to television so you'll make me laugh again .  [pg-13] 
pos@ some movies have such an impact that they linger in your mind long after the credits have rolled , making you think carefully and recollect on what you have just seen .  i finished mike figgis' " leaving las vegas " hours ago , and it is still as haunting as when i hit rewind on the vcr .  alot of people refer to this film as " that flick where nick cage plays that alcoholic dude " .   " leaving las vegas " is not so much a movie about alcoholism as it is a story about two people who except each other for what they are : a drunk and a whore .  ben ( nicolas cage in possibly the best male performance of the past twenty years ) is the drunk .  his family and friends have long since abandon him , and all he has left is his liquor .  in a scene early in the film , we see ben staggering into a resteraunt , looking for a " friend " of his to mooch some money off of .  he finds the guy ( richard lewis ) having dinner with a buddy and two chicks , trying to crack witty jokes that just come out stupid .  when ben approaches the table , you can clearly sense that everyone immediatly feels uncomfortable .  after lewis gives ben the money , he coldly says " i think it would be best if you didn't contact me again . "  now even though through the course of the film , some much more depressing things happen , this is when i felt the most for ben .  there was such a look of sorrow and dispare on his face , ( not to sound hokey or anything ) it almost brought a tear to my eye .  it turns out that ben was once a semi-successful hollywood player , and apparently a pretty popular guy .  now he spends his time getting robbed by hookers and trying desperatly to pick up women , not so much for the sex , but for the company ; for someone to talk to or spend time with .  once he is fired from his job , ben decides to burn all his belongings , collect all his cash and relocate to las vegas to slowly drink himself to death .  one night he runs into a prostitute ( a brilliant performance by elizabeth shue - how far she has come since " adventures in babysitting " ) named sera .  she is involved in an abusive relationship with her pimp , a scumbag who gets-off by cutting her .  they are both very lonely , self-destructive people .  they immediatly hit it off , both of them realizing that they need one another .  and it isn't even a sexual relationship .  they don't even have sex until , like , the last ten minutes of the film .   " leaving las vegas " is not a film about plot .  with the exception of what i have already revealed ( which all happens in the first thirty minutes or so , by the way ) , there isn't too much of a story to it .  it is more a film about people and how they react to one another .  from what i can see , this is basically a perfect film .  the direction is great ( with mike figgis doing a brilliant mix between the glamor of las vegas and the moody , smokey atmosphere of a film noir ) and it contains two of the best performances to come out of the 90s , or any other decade for that matter .  but don't go rushing out to see this movie without knowing what you're getting yourself into .  first off , if you are easily offended by frank sexual dialouge , stay away from " leaving las vegas " .  it is filled with lengthy discussions of orgasms , rape and various forms of perverted activities involving burbon ( that's right ) .  secondly , if you are not in the mood to see a very depressing film , don't see it .  however , if you are cool with those two things , you are in for one of the most memorable experiences you will ever have . 
neg@ would you believe -- in real life , i mean -- that if you were julia roberts , that you'd be the ugly underdog to your sister , the creepy catherine zeta-jones ?  let me tell you what reality is .  reality is that you are megastar julia fricking roberts and your brother is eric roberts , and he picks up whatever crumbs of stardom fall off your coattails as you blaze across the sky in a golden chariot .  that's reality .  america's sweethearts is the opposite of reality , a train wreck that tries to sell julia as a scruffy also-ran , presumably because she wears horn-rimmed glasses and used to be overweight ( uh-huh ) .  the plot follows two married , mega-movie stars , gwen and eddie ( zeta-jones and poor , poor john cusack , whose material gets worse every year ) , on the eve of their new star vehicle's release , a film called time over time .  the only problem : gwen and eddie have gone through a nasty separation , and the press and public have not been forgiving ( think meg and dennis ) .  gosh , and the director has vanished with the film , holding the only print hostage .  veteran pr agent lee ( billy crystal ) is called upon to clean up the mess , throwing a press junket in the nevada desert to woo them with the story of a possible reconciliation between the gwen and eddie , presumably distracting the stupid , stupid film critics into forgetting they haven't seen the movie at all .   ( note to sony : any studio executive that thinks this plot is going to win points with the reviewing press needs to check into rehab . )  and did i mention gwen's sister kiki ( roberts ) is along for the ride ?  and that she and eddie just might fall in love along the way ?  oh billy , you're a scamp !  the script you've co-written with peter tolan ( what planet are you from ?  and bedazzled -- need i say more ? ) is a roast of hollywood and celebrity , sure , but it's not a funny one .  yes , crystal tells us , hollywood is lying to our faces !  if you are surprised by this , you might want to check on your subscription to people magazine .  it's about to expire .  aside from a scant few zingers ( yeah , se ? or winces rules ! ) ,  america's sweethearts' jokes aren't funny , its pace is choppy , and the whole affair comes off as a vanity project -- not for headlining star julia roberts -- but for billy crystal to deliver a bunch of lame punch lines that he wrote himself .  i didn't time it ( the movie's not that bad ) , but it's crystal who really has the most screen time and is the unequivocal focus of the film .  bad move , billy -- your jokes suck .  the crotch humor is outpaced only by the meanness of the movie's gags -- and with unsubtle sexual innuendo dripping from every scene , how this movie earned a pg-13 rating is a mystery to me .  julia overcame a lot of spiteful writing and acting to make my best friend's wedding into a winning film , but not even that 90-tooth smile can save her here .  obviously aware of the ugliness before him , director joe roth turns to goofy supporting characters like hank azaria ( as a lisping spaniard ) , christopher walken ( the insane time over time director ) , and alan arkin ( a new age guru in a fright wig ) to crack wise .  none of the stereotypes is successful except for walken ; azaria comes off as a preening queen when he's supposed to be macho .  as for roth , in case you don't know , went from direcing revenge of the nerds ii to launching his own movie studio , revolution , which produced this work .  he's back behind the camera for the first time in 11 years .  it'll probably be another 11 before he's back again .  i could drone on about how america's sweethearts will only appeal to the mouth-breathing morons who talk on their cell phones during the movies , but that would get old .  instead , i'll settle for discussing the movie's worst sin : that sweethearts is painfully contrived and wholly unbelievable , not just in its plot but in its sentiment .  every single character in this film ( with the arguable exception of kiki ) is simply hateful , and putting them in a romantic comedy is a waste of a bunch of villains .  when you leave the theater , you'll ask yourself , too : why would i want any of these jerks to be happy ? 
pos@ every once in a while , when an exceptional family film comes along , i will attempt to champion it by challenging parents to put their money where their mouths have been ; with all the hubbub over the lack of films suitable for children , it is remarkable how many non-disney films disappear in a couple of weeks .  now i see that in so doing , i have unfairly ghettoized these films .  so i am issuing my challenge not just to parents , but to anyone who wants to support smart , funny , energetic film-making : see matilda .  see it in a theater , rather than shrugging and waiting for it on video .  see the best film i have seen in 1996 .  not the best children's film . . . the  best film .  period .  based on a story by roald dahl , it tells of young matilda wormwood ( mara wilson ) , an extraordinarily bright girl whose great misfortune it is to have a pair of deeply stupid parents : harry ( danny devito ) , a crooked used car salesman ; and zinnia ( rhea perlman ) , a simple-minded bingo addict .  the wormwoods barely notice matilda exists , and when they do , it is only to scold her for spending too much time reading books .  when they finally do send her to school , it is to crunchem hall , a bleak place run by cruel , child-hating miss agatha trunchbull ( pam ferris ) .  but things begin to look up for matilda when she discovers a sympathetic teacher , miss honey ( embeth davidtz ) , who nurtures her natural inquisitiveness .  matilda also discovers another special talent -- the ability to move things with her mind -- which allows her to help herself and miss honey to overcome miss trunchbull's cruelty .  it was this spring's james and the giant peach which inspired me to note that the best and most lasting tales for children tended to have more than a hint of darkness to them , and you can bet that the roald dahl responsible for the gleeful ghoulishness of james and willy wonka and the chocolate factory has more of the same in store with matilda .  and just as james benefited from the dark sensibilities of henry selick and tim burton , matilda soars on the cock-eyed direction of danny devito .  devito made black humor a key element in throw momma from the train and the war of the roses , and he contributes some memorable images .  in one scene , an unfortunate girl is made an example of by miss trunchbull when she is picked up by her pig-tails and flung through the air like a throwing hammer ; later , an overweight boy is forced to eat an entire massive cake after he is caught stealing a dessert .  matilda is just twisted enough to be a perfect fairy tale .  it is also characteristic of the best children's tales that they manage to teach lessons in such a way that children almost don't realize that they are learning them .  there is a hilarious moment when matilda's television-addicted father snatches away the book she is reading ( in a wicked joke , he thinks _moby dick_ is pornographic ) and forces her to watch an inane game show ( hosted by jon lovitz ) in which contestants are smeared with adhesive and placed in a booth filled with cash blowing around .  matilda is a story which promotes the value of intellectual curiosity over passive entertainment , and it does so while poking holes in that most frustrating of notions for a child -- that because " i'm big and you're little , i'm right and you're wrong . "  more specifically , it has as its heroine an intelligent , self-confident girl who struggles successfully against other people's notions of how she should behave .  it is no coincidence that matilda was co-written by robin swicord , who contributed the superb recent adaptation of little women .  finally , matilda has that quality i find rarest and most treasured in family entertainment : it is family entertainment in the truest sense of the word .  devito knows enough to make matilda fast-paced and appealing to children , taking a deliciously nasty performance by pam ferris as miss trunchbull and making it the focal point of some priceless physical comedy , including a great chase through her dark house .  the child actors are winning but never obnoxiously adorable , with mara wilson making matilda a clever and extremely likeable character .  but there are also many , many delights for adults , including my favorite scene in which matilda uses her powers to frighten miss trunchbull by having chalk write on a chalkboard by itself while matilda's classmates recite in sing-song fashion ; there is also a deadpan cameo by paul reubens as an fbi agent staking out matilda's father .  i can't imagine anyone of any age leaving matilda feeling as though his or her intelligence had been insulted .  matilda is a film which left me glowing with good feeling .  i will see it again , and years from now i will watch it with my children .  and now i will stop , because somewhere near you matilda is about to begin , and there is a seat in that theater you should be in , if you have a child or ever were a child . 
neg@ the last of vampire-films offers plenty of blood and gore , but beyond that - nothing .  jack crow ( james woods ) is a professional vampire slayer that is secretly working for the vatican .  his and his men's mission is to clean the earth from vampires .  they have lost count of how many vampires they have slaughtered , but one has always escaped them .  valek ( thomas ian griffith ) - the dark messias and ruler of the undead that is older than time itself .  for all eternity the vampires have searched for their salvation - the black cross .  with the cross in their possesion , the vampires will be able to walk in the sunlight .  after that it is either the humans or the vampires who will dominate the earth . . .  i have never liked john carpenter and his style .  after seeing this film , my opinions have not changed .  john carpenter remains john carpenter .  however , because of the film's self-irony , black humour and fascinating cinematography , i would say that it is his greatest achievement in a long , long time .  neither the synopses or carpenter's direction are original .  but there are some things that are interesting .  the director's negative view on the catholic church , for instance .  at the end of the film it becomes clear that cardinal alba ( maximilian schell ) has simply used crow and his team to find valek , so that he would gain eternal life .  otherwise the catholic priests are shown cool - drinking , smoking and breaking the rool of celibacy .  carpenter has created an interesting atmosphere .  set in new mexican dessert , he switches between bright golden sunrises and bloody sundowns , symbolically illustrating the good and the evil through light and darkness .  more than anything in this film , this simple illustration shows the battle between good and evil .  the cinematography by gary b . kibbe is probably the film's greatest achievement .  music ( composed by john carpenter himself ) is at times effective , the special effects and makeup are likewise worth a notice .  when it comes to the cast ( in an intellectual film like this casting is the last problem ; everyone can scream and swing the axe ! ) , but here james woods is suprisingly convincing .  he is macho and cool as the dedicated hunter , who lost his family to the " breed of evil " .  woods is constantly overacting , which really saves the film from falling into the trap of serious self importance .  daniel baldwin is also entertaining as crow's loyal partner .  the other cast members are struggling .  because the film doesn't take itself too seriously , it stays afloat .  still it is like most vampire-films - a mediocre experience . 
pos@ time bandits , from director terry gilliam , is a very different fantasy action/adventure movie about a group of time-traveling dwarves , led by randall ( david rappaport ) , who have stolen a map of the universe .  this map contains time hole , that , if exploited , enable the men to travel back and forth through time .  the supreme being of the universe ( ralph richardson ) is the former employer of these treasure-seeking bandits , and he wishes desperately to regain the map . .  during the travels , he appears as a ghostly face , demanding that they return the map that they have stolen .  but , according to randall , they are just " borrowing " it .  kevin , a young boy who seems quite bored with his life , is unexpectedly brought into the schemes of the little men when they appear in his room , which has a portal for time traveling .  he joins up with the men and becomes part of their gang , following them on their robberies .  their first victim is napoleon ( ian holm ) , whom they rob during a battle that he is commanding .  from here , the group travels to the middle ages , meeting up with robin hood himself .  eventually , kevin is separated from the group and travels to an egyptian time where he is taken in by king agamemnon , played by sean connery .  kevin accidentally saved the king's life , and the king wishes to have kevin as his son .  but the group of bandits find kevin and transport onto the deck of the titanic .  meanwhile , the evil genius ( david warner ) is watching the group from fortress of ultimate darkness , attempting to find a way in order to bring the men , and the map , to him .  when randall learns of the fortress of ultimate darkness , which supposedly contains " the most fabulous object in the world " , the dollar signs seemingly appear on his eyes , as he is convinced that they must travel there .  once inside the fortress of ultimate darkness , it is unclear as to if any of the men will make it out alive .  time bandits is a fantastically made film that caters to the imagination of anyone .  with a terrific soundtrack , courtesy of george harrison , whom also was an executive producer , time bandits is sure to be a very surrealistic , time-traveling adventure with unforgettable characters that is sure to entertain anyone .  terry gilliam , however , does not utilize that greatly his trademark ability in moviemaking during this film , although this does not affect the film that greatly .  and finally , if you liked labyrinth , you'll love time bandits . 
neg@ it's difficult to expect much from a director whose greatest accomplishments to date are a handful of " award-winning " tv commercials , as is the case with bubble boy director blair hayes .  that said , hayes's feature film debut lives up to expectations , coming off mainly as equal parts offensive and moronic .  but occasionally , bubble boy transcends its substandard roots with glimmers of humor and scathing social commentary .  those moments of intelligence are delivered mostly by the film's two stars , jake gyllenhall as the immuno-deficient jimmy and swoosie kurtz as his over-protective , hyper religious , reagan-loving mother .  gyllenhall's sweet-natured delivery of jimmy's hilariously na ? ve narration serves as the backbone for an otherwise flimsy coming-of-age story : jimmy is a bubble boy , a kid born without immunity who could die if he comes in contact with a single germ -- a plight explored more seriously in the john travolta tv movie boy in the plastic bubble and less so on seinfeld .  his mom home-schools jimmy , filling his head with wildly twisted conservative propaganda and anti-sexual messages , until he's befriended by chloe ( marley shelton ) , the beautiful girl next door .  jimmy falls in love with chloe , but is afraid that his love will literally kill him , as evidenced in a scene when she drunkenly tries to enter his bubble for a kiss .  but when chloe decides to marry her high school boyfriend , jimmy builds a bubble suit and embarks on a hijinks-addled cross-country voyage to stop the wedding by professing his love .  the offensive bits have little to do with jimmy's rare handicap ( regardless of what the film's protesters would have you believe ) , but instead center on outrageous racial stereotypes , including a screaming chinese strip club owner and a devout east indian hindi .  but even if you find stereotype humor funny , it's hard to muster more than a giggle for these shallow gags .  they even manage to bungle some potentially great moments with a group of carnival freaks .  but a few of the harsh jabs manage to work , especially in the case of kurtz , who very bluntly shows the dark , hypocritical side of the religious right , and a wacky send-up of a cult called " bright 'n shiny , " led by the inimitable fabio .  unfortunately , a few giggles can't make bubble boy the riotous , off-the-wall comedy it so desperately wants to be .  honestly , it's a mystery how on earth this movie was ever made , and i'm not just saying that because it's so mediocre .  how odd for disney to take a gamble on a film with an unknown director starring virtually unknown actors that doesn't seem to appeal to any particular demographic and has the potential to offend so many .  and now that the studio is suffering through a very public protest against the film by the parents of real-life bubble boy david philip vetter , maybe disney's wondering the same thing .  hope the opening box office take makes it worthwhile . 
pos@ it's wednesday , march 27 , and a murder investigation is underway in charlotte , south carolina .  the crime : a young prostitute , elizabeth ( renee zellweger ) , has been brutally slain .  one half of her severed body was found in a bag at the train station .  the other half was discovered in a trunk at the harbor authority , miles away .  the police duo of braxton ( chris penn ) and kennesaw ( michael rooker ) are strapped for leads .  at the moment , they have only one possible suspect : wayland ( tim roth ) , a wealthy , unemployed genius who graduated summa cum laude from princeton and appears to be the least likely character to commit such a heinous act .  that's the premise for deceiver , a new thriller from the pate brothers , jonas and josh , who made their mark on the film world two years ago at sundance with the movie the grave .  deceiver plays out like a mind game between the intellectually superior wayland and the two not- so-bright cops ( captions early in the proceedings let us know that wayland's iq is 151 ; by contrast , kennesaw's is 122 and braxton's is 102 ) .  the setting is a police interrogation room where a lie detector test is about to be administered .  over three days , as wayland returns to answer more questions , the drama and tension among these three characters gradually escalates until , inevitably , it boils over .  other plot elements are thrown in for good measure .  wayland suffers from a peculiar kind of epilepsy that can , in stressful situations , render him virtually catatonic or extremely violent .  braxton , a compulsive gambler , is deep in debt to a local syndicate .  and kennesaw is haunted by a dark , abusive side that delights in terrorizing women , especially his wife ( rosanna arquette ) , whom he suspects of being unfaithful .  the foibles and failings of these three are brought into the open as the mystery around elizabeth's death deepens and it becomes unclear who has the upper hand : the suspect or his questioners .  deceiver , which mostly transpires in a dimly-lit room and involves a lot of smart dialogue , has the feel of a david mamet play : edgy , claustrophobic , and tense .  the atmosphere is explosive , and some of pivotal moments of confrontation are riveting .  deceiver has the power to grab an audience .  unfortunately , in the end , it succumbs to the need to throw in one last , unexpected twist , and this is its undoing .  for , while this surprise will certainly shock most viewers , it also stretches our credulity too much , and raises more questions than it answers .  it's only an effective wrap-up if you don't think too carefully about its full implications .  of course , the film as a whole plays fast and loose with reality and logic .  police procedure is totally ignored and it's almost impossible to accept that any criminal investigation would or could proceed in this manner .  but the real focus in deceiver is on character interaction , not plot details .  deceiver only occasionally gets out of the police station , and those instances occur primarily during flashbacks featuring the prostitute .  the pates employ a number of interesting techniques to present vignettes from elizabeth's final days and hours .  the most intriguing of these is to use an unreliable narrator while underlining the discrepancies in his voice-over by visually showing what really happened .  moments like this are too effective to be dismissed as gimmicks .  the movie , obviously fashioned in the manner of classic film noir , drips atmosphere .  there are some fascinating stylistic touches ; for example , although the setting is contemporary , all of the telephones are old-fashioned , rotary models .  cinematographer bill butler is given an opportunity to use unconventional camera work to liven up deceiver's look .  some of the things he tries ( mostly those that involve the contrast between light and shadow ) work exceptionally well , while others ( like any of several lazy susan shots ) seem more like unnecessary visual tricks .  as wayland , tim roth gives the film's top performance , despite occasionally treading the tightrope between acting and overacting .  roth makes us believe that wayland is both as brilliant and as troubled as he's supposed to be .  the other two leads , chris penn and michael rooker , aren't as effective .  both play their characters like familiar types .  penn's performance is uninspired ; rooker's lacks subtlety .  some of the best work is turned in by the supporting actors .  renee zellweger , in a role that's miles away from her star-making turn in jerry maguire , brings a note of vulnerability and humanity to a part that could easily have become a caricature .  rosanna arquette is solid as kennesaw's wife , and michael parks delivers several wonderful scenes as a psychiatrist who's entrusted with evaluating wayland's condition .  one of the best things about deceiver is that it never talks down to the audience .  plot points aren't hammered home , and , although the ending has its weaknesses , everything isn't spelled out in bold letters .  the pates give audience members credit for having brains , which is an increasingly rare characteristic for film makers .  occasionally gripping and never uninteresting , deceiver is a fine noir effort . 
neg@ if i were one of those arrogant critics who thinks his review has some great impact on the success or failure of certain films , i might say that i review movies that don't look particularly good because i'm doing a service to my readers by warning them against seeing it .  if that were true , i could put a banner at the top of my site that reads : " shay casey : seeing bad movies so you don't have to . "  but i know that's bunk-you're going to see whatever movies you want to no matter what i say .  so i have to tell the truth : every once in a while i get a nasty , masochistic urge to see a bad movie .  you know the feeling , when you're sick of seeing all these damn academy award contenders and you want to see something you can have a ball trashing mercilessly .  sometimes i think that's why anyone goes to see pauly shore movies , ever .  admit it : sometimes you like seeing bad movies .  so do i .  so i saw " supernova . "  truth be told , " supernova " wasn't quite as bad as i thought it might be .  maybe i just felt sorry for the actors , or maybe i thought it could have been decent if the studio hadn't started tinkering with the director's ( walter hill ) final cut , causing him to want his name removed .  maybe i'm becoming a softy .  in any case , i didn't find " supernova " as bad as the advance buzz would have me believe .  but it's still bad .  the film takes place aboard the medical space vessel " nightingale . "  the crew includes captain a . j .  marley ( robert forster ) , his new second officer nick vanzant ( james spader ) , head medical officer kaela evers ( angela bassett ) , medical technicians yerzy penalosa ( lou diamond phillips ) and danika lund ( robin tunney ) , and computer technician benj sotomejor ( wilson cruz ) .  there are some attempts at " characterization , " but all that means is that nick has a shady past involving a drug addiction , which puts kaela on edge , yerzy and danika have a relationship that requires them to make kissy-faces at each other every five minutes , and benj ( apparently gay ) is in love with the computer ( apparently female ) .  don't expect any more explanation , because you won't get it .  anyway , the crew gets a distress call from a location deep in space to which a failed mining operation had been sent .  during the dimension jump ( i think that's what it's called , but don't hold me to it ) , the captain is killed and the man who sent the distress signal ( peter facinelli ) is brought on board .  he calls himself troy larson , making him the supposed son of a man kaela once had a relationship with .  then a bunch of really predictable stuff starts happening .  have you seen " alien ? "  have you seen " event horizon " ( a lame movie in its own right ) ?  good .  then you've seen " supernova . "  post-production cuts or not , there is nothing original about this screenplay , and nothing unpredictable either .  after all , no one's going to think for a second that troy won't turn out to be a villain .  but the bigger problem with " supernova " is that it can' t just stick to the simple plot it's afforded .  numerous re-writes ( the script may be credited to three people , but it's a gross underestimate ) have crammed this lean 90-minute film with tons of extraneous plot threads that all remain underdeveloped .  was there something about a limping robot shaped like a fighter pilot ?  did the ship's computer learn something about humanity ?  what was that glowing lava lamp artifact troy brought on board with him ?  and just what does the film's title signify , if anything ?  as far as i can tell , it refers to a very small plot detail that isn't developed , just like the rest of these unnecessary story elements .  character relationships in this film also make very little sense .  for some reason , every person in this film keeps having sex .  we get an unusually early sex scene between phillips and tunney within the first 10 minutes .  bassett and spader's characters start off hating each other .  fifteen minutes and one bottle of pear brandy later , they're engaging in some hanky-panky .  when troy the creepy stranger shows up on the ship , of course both female crew members will fall in love with him .  every single shift in character interaction happens extremely suddenly , which is only one of the many obvious clues to how much this film has been cut .  the most prominent example , however , may be the fact that when the film starts , there are no opening credits !  furthermore , the end of the film looks like they took what were originally intended to be the opening credits and spliced them in right before the real end credits .  maybe that's why the film's title is mentioned twice during the end credits , right between james spader and robert forster .  right after you get over the shock of not being told what movie you're seeing ( lest you decide to walk out upon making that discovery ) , you might notice that the movie seems to have dropped you right in the middle of a scene , with little-to-no introduction to any of the characters or situations .  the rest of the movie feels like they skipped over the middle stuff in the character changes ( you know , where they explain things ) and just went from point a to point b . point a : danika is thoroughly enamored of yerzy and is ready to have his baby .  point b : tunney is now shagging troy and yerzy is unusually obsessed with the lava lamp thing .  doesn't make sense .  since i didn't understand anything about these characters' motivations , did i care when troy abruptly starts murdering them one-by-one ( and he does , knocking off three of them in about 10 minutes ) ?  not a whit .  it's a shame , because this cast contains a lot of talented actors looking for something to do .  they don't find it .  bassett and spader say every line in the same monotone voice with the same blank expressions on their faces .  sexual tension ?  more like constipation .  maybe they're just embarrassed at having to utter such howlers as " this thing was made by someone more powerful than god and a whole lot less nice . "  not that we ever find out who that is , mind you .  the climax of their relationship ( taking place in a transport pod ) is probably the film's biggest forehead-slapper .  as troy , peter facinelli inhabits the most obvious villain in history that no one ever suspected .  he' s awfully one-note , but it's not as if he's given any more notes to work with .  the rest of the cast does even less .  tunney stands around looking cute , then scared .  phillips broods .  cruz flirts with the computer .  then they all die and a star blows up or something , but i really wasn't paying much attention by then .   " supernova " is pretty awful , but i'm cutting it a little slack merely because i expected less than what i got .  that's it .  if you expect it to be good ( for whatever reasons you may have ) , you'll probably hate it more than i will .  even the special effects are fairly unimpressive , nothing you haven' t seen before , and suffice to say the script isn't going to save the film .  honestly , though , what do you expect from a film with about a dozen writers and a director who had his name removed and replaced with a pseudonym ?  it usually results in a bad movie , and that's what " supernova " is . 
pos@ whew . this film oozes energy , the kind of breakneck , no- holds-barred , in-your-face risk-taking filmmaking that is seldom seen on screen these days .  like the marginal , motley bunch of post-apocalyptic youths director danny boyle tries to depict , trainspotting veers on the edge of utter mayhem but ultimately retains its footing and control .  the result : a movie that is a delightful example of how the medium is the message .  the message : a bunch of losers with loser names , mark renton ( ewan mcgregor ) , spud ( ewan bremner ) , sick boy ( jonny lee miller ) , tommy ( kevin mckidd ) , and begbie ( robert carlyle ) .  bored , aimless and restless , their routine consists of getting drunk at the local pub , grooving to techno or glam-rock at the local disco and getting shots up the arm at the local den and procuring cash through a variety of methods , some ingenious , others plainly dumb and desperate .  not part of the daily dose if obtained , sex is a bonus .  you can find these characters as they are , foul-mouthed , dirty , pathetic , ugly perhaps but definitely interesting , in irvin welsh's cult novel of the same name .  what makes the film a completely different experience is how director boyle uses every tool at his disposal to make the filmic medium synchronous with the message .  one of the first things you'll notice is how the camera seems to dart around restlessly .  it'll truck into a character's pimple , just as soon as it will dolly out to an establishing shot .  distracted and curious , it'll maintain a character's eye-level or drop right to the ground to show the doped-out-eye-view .  you'll even find characters peering into the camera , their faces smeared across the wide-angle lens .  this film camera is just another one of the guys .  tiptoeing that indistinguishable line between fantasy and reality , boyle employs a healthy dose of surrealism to get the message across .  bored kids daydream and bored kids deprived of a heroin fix have nightmares .  i don't want to give too much away , but if you cross chuckie from child's play with some of the wacky fantasies in heavenly creatures , you might have an idea just how fun or pants-wetting scary the alternate state of consciouness can be .  that said , this film has a good share of drugs - consumed , vomitted , defecated , pissed off , exchanged , bought , sold , injected , smuggled , enjoyed and regretted .  if that isn't your cup of tea , nobody forced you to see the film .  stay at home and rent up close and personal .  and what's a buzz without tunes .  from pulp to iggy pop ( yes , he's still alive ) , the aural landscape is as engaging as the visual energy permeating the film .  good and bad vibrations tangle like the conflicting desires and values of the message .  every once in a while , a film comes along with the kind of energetic filmmaking that matches the intensity of its characters it hopes to depict .  trainspotting is that shooting star that burns across a sky littered with static constellations .  dom is a part-time filmmaker who graduated from northwestern university's radio/tv/film programme not too long ago .  he has laboured on various music videos and short films in and around campus and chicago .  nowhere town , a 26min short film that he shot , co-directed and co-produced recently scooped up the grand jury prize at the charleston international film festival for best student production .  he is currently finishing a couple of small projects .  with his minute amounts of leisure time , dom does nell impersonations . 
neg@ when i first saw the preview for cruel intentions , i turned to my friend and said , " dangerous liaisons for kids ! "  it was clear to me that the film would be an obvious chunk of plagiarized nonsense , owing everything it is to stephen frears' 1988 masterpiece .  imagine my surprise to see that writer/director roger kumble has given credit to his source material : choderlos de laclos is recognized for his novel les liaisons dangereuses in the opening credits .  and i was impressed .  in fact , i was much more impressed with this recognition than with the actual film , which is an appalling excuse for a movie .  it's kiddie-porn hackwork , complete with earthy sex-talk and fully-clothed hand-jobs .  i suppose this kind of movie was inevitable ; with all the teen high-school angst movies coming out , there was certainly room for a pretentious and laughable movie about a bunch of teenagers who think they're smarter and more beautiful than all the other people on earth combined .  cruel intentions is a mess in every possible way , and it fails primarily in the way i expected it to : i hated all the characters , and i hate everything they do .  i also hate ryan phillippe , so perhaps my opinion is not as objective as it could be .  phillippe plays ( check out this name ) sebastian valmont .  wow .  isn't that a memorable name ?  i could just say it over and over again .  sebastian valmont .  it kind of rolls off the tongue , in the spirit of phrases like sanguine vapors and velvet sandwich .  sebastian valmont is the coolest guy who ever walked the earth ; there is no woman he can't have , no material object out of his reach .  he has all the money , all the sex -- all at his fingertips .  and , luckily , his parents never enter into his life -- no , in the world of cruel intentions , adults don't really exist .  the ones who do are irritating .  sebastian valmont lives with his stepsister , kathryn merteuil ( sarah michelle gellar ) , the bitch-queen of the universe , and also the woman every man wants .  since these two rich kids are so bored , they only thing they can do is challenge each other with meaningless sexual liaisons .  kathryn wants sebastian valmont to de-virginize cecile caldwell ( selma blair ) , a naive dork-chick who has somehow wronged kathryn .  but it's too easy for sebastian valmont -- he wants to nail annette hargrove ( reese witherspoon ) , the " paradigm of chastity and beauty . "  so , sebastian valmont and kathryn make a deal ( which is too explicit to state here ) .  but -- dear god !  -- sebastian valmont actually begins to fall for poor annette hargrove .  dangerous liaisons is a great movie because the characters are all believable , and because of its masterful acting .  cruel intentions is bad for many reasons , but it lacks both believable characters and masterful acting .  kathryn merteuil is simply a hateful witch , a girl so loathsome that i would probably enjoy pouring hot lead on her .  she is supposed to be mean , but glenn close gave the character some depth in dangerous liaisons .  gellar , while aesthetically pleasing , is one-dimensional and utterly repulsive .  witherspoon has a truly beautiful face , but her character isn't the moral staple she's supposed to be : sure , she won't have sex until she's in love ( is this really a * moral * issue ? ) , but she does some things in the last few scenes that are more than a little reprehensible .  but i can't forget mr . phillippe , who continues to exceed my expectations with his impenetrable , invulnerable blandness .  i have to give him credit and say that he did , in fact , manage to change his facial expression about three times during the course of cruel intentions .  and there's one point in the film in which he shouts , thereby defeating my hypothesis that he is vocally monotone .  true , he is bad , but it doesn't help that he has no character to work with .  kumble has drained all the interesting aspects from this character , leaving us with a sex-crazed lunatic who is supposed to be sympathetic because he falls in love with a moral flower and shuns the wicked bitch .  the film fails in every other way , too .  first of all , nobody talks like this .  even the " intellectuals " i know don't bother with this kind of pointless and pretentious yammering .  for a while , the movie looks like it might play itself for laughs , but it ends up taking itself so seriously that there's no way we can join it .  cruel intentions also manages to come off as soft-porn in more than one scene .  earlier i mentioned a fully-clothed hand-job ; this occurs between kathryn and sebastian valmont , both of whom are intended to be hateful at this point in the movie .  so , if we hate them , then what's the point of an extended sex scene ?  titillation , of course .  it can't even work under the pretense of " meaningful love scene , " because we hate the characters .  it's interesting to note some of the parallels between cruel intentions and dangerous liaisons .  kumble is clearly familiar with the earlier film ; many of the scenes have a similar tone , and there are moments in frears' film that kumble imitates almost completely ( such as the last scene , in which [spoiler warning ! ] the antagonist is humiliated in front of her peers ) .  but kids don't act like this .  nobody acts like this .  in his translation , roger kumble forgot character development and sympathy -- some pretty crucial elements .  the result is a picture of confounding badness , a kiddie-porn mess that thinks it's really deep and profound .  i'll give cruel intentions credit for realizing its influences , but that doesn't change the fact that it's awful . 
pos@ in wonder boys michael douglas plays an aged writer \ professor with such lived-in naturalism that i believe it may be his best performance .  ever since wall street , douglas has spent the greater part of his career playing variations on the shark in a suit gordon gecko character he personified in the mid-80's .  in those performances he tended to exaggerate the vehemence of cutthroat businessmen , with much frothing at the mouth while projecting all his bad intentions to the world .  you'd think such a man would keep his evil wrapped tightly underneath a good-natured veneer , but from gordon gecko to nicholas van orton , douglas played the role straight and out in the open .  in wonder boys his performance isn't showy or a tour de force , it's simple yet truthful .  he embodies grady , a craggy old writer with a predilection for pot and pink bathrobes .  grady instructs a writers workshop while working tirelessly on a follow up to the novel that put him on the map .  when we first encounter this curmudgeon in the midst of his workshop , we hear his sardonic narration on the soundtrack as students bombard one of their own with unfair criticisms .  grady points out , in his narration , that they only do so out of jealousy .  their target is the very writerly named james leer ( played by the always understated tobey maguire ) , a student full of potential and one whom grady develops a mild affection for .  leer is the kind of youth who seems to mechanically block out emotions .  he speaks in an intellectualized monotone with just a hint of dry wit around the edges .  he's portentous and gloomy , as if modeling himself after the great depressed writers , though his act is a little too calculated .  he reminds me of the self-imposed outcast film director , jim jarmusch ( dead man , ghost dog ) .  whenever i happen to catch jarmusch in an interview i see the man speaking in a toneless manner ( the monotonous drawl supposedly masking depth or contempt for his interviewer ) , exclusively dressed in black , and with his spiked hair dyed snow white .  leer is similar , a guy who equates quirks with depth .  tobey maguire fits well in the role .  with his round , sweet-eerie face he resembles bud cort from harold and maude .  but unlike cort , maguire is easier to warm up to ; he's a messed up kid reaching for artistic credibility .  katie holmes plays hannah , a beautiful , talented writing student just itching to get in grady's pants .  this is a plot line i had trouble with .  douglas , in his old age , is beginning to resemble jerry springer , a man who has actually paid for sex on numerous documented occasions .  at first i found it extremely difficult to believe that someone as beautiful as hannah would desire grady ( maybe it's because i'm jealous , and wish holmes was throwing herself at me , after all i may just be a lowly internet critic but at least i still have all my teeth ) , then i think of douglas's real life companion , the breathtaking catherine zeta jones .  seeing those two together looks a lot like a kidnapping .  suddenly my mind has shifted from the task at hand ( that being reviewing this completely wonderful movie ) and i'm pontificating on why the hell jones would desire douglas .  there is a movie in there somewhere .  grady , rather chivalrously if you ask me , resists the charms of hannah for sara gaskell ( a droll frances mcdormand ) , who is his age , but also married to another professor .  okay , maybe not so chivalrous .  there is a great line in the film spoken by douglas about sara where he says , " she was a junkie for the printed word .  lucky for me i manufactured her drug of choice " .  robert downy j . r plays a bisexual editor who makes his entrance with a towering transvestite on his arm .  downy has mastered the gleefully dry hyper articulate wit of many a hipster intellectual .  he's arrogant but completely likeable in his utter arrogance .  the actor is perfectly cast here , and remains a joyous movie presence somewhere between a typical tom hanksian comic leading man and edgy character actor .  i wish wonder boys had more of him .  searching for a plot among the elements of wonder boys would be pointless , for it meanders through its running time , but that's part of its charm .  and maybe i'm a bit biased towards the film because it takes place in a haven of literary academia , a place i'm greatly fond of , and a place rarely explored in american cinema .  everyone has a sub-genre ( be it war films , westerns , dance movies ) that they happen to be privy to .  i'm privy to films about literary types i . e .  those individuals enthralled by the written word , and if you are not so inclined it may be wise to knock my above grade down about half a notch .  the direction by curtis hanson is more akin to a european film with its leisurely pace and situations that grow from the characters , rather than generic mapped out story points .  sometimes the dialogue is too clever , but that's a problem i wish i found with films more often .  another minor quibble is that early on the film seems a bit too introverted , like its characters , but as the story progresses it begins to open up .  for me wonder boys works as subtle drama because of its insight into artistic types , and as a low-key comedy for its chuckle-worthy throwaway gags .  the gags are like those in the great robert altman ( m * a * s * h , the long goodbye ) movies , where jokes exist as asides on the fringes , like jokes in life often do .  the broader comedy such as the killing of a blind dog , and incessant smoking of marijuana isn't ineffective but not nearly as memorable as the little things .  curtis hanson , who before his last film , la confidential , toiled about with exploitation fare like losin' it ( an early tom cruise sex comedy ) and the hand the rocks the cradle , has graduated to more meaningful films .  he directs wonder boys in an appropriately dour style , the comedy coming from the false gloom his characters put up .  the morose crooning of leonard cohen would seem an odd song for the background of any party , but in a wonder boys party , it fits .  the film is like a piece of literature put up on the big screen .  it's the cinematic equivalent to a good read , novelistic in its approach with themes rarely found in american movies .  many will find it slight , but i found much to savor among its subtleties . 
neg@ synopsis : a novelist struggling with his latest work buys a weird brain with a protruding eyeball encased in a jar .  the brain exerts its evil influence upon the novelist and his secretary , while his wife disapproves .  meanwhile , a loan shark in need of a shave tries to leave his profession .  comments : why is this movie called possessed by the night ?  it's hard to speculate .  most of this film takes place during the day , and the only thing possessing anyone is an icky , pulsating , bubbling brain thingie in a jar .  in case you haven't picked up on this yet , possessed by the night is a bottom-of-the-barrel " thriller " ( i use the term " thriller " loosely here ) which is really cheap and bad .  the plot , which sounds like a cheesy pulp science fiction story from the 1950s , actually serves one purpose : to exploit nude women as often as possible .  writing a movie review for a film like this proves oddly challenging .  there's really not much to say .  the acting is lousy ; although , occasionally , the attempts at acting are so absurd that they garner a chuckle or two from the audience .  most humorous is frank sivero , who plays murray , the novelist's agent .  he is so horrible in this role that one can't help but be amused .  the plot sucks .  nearly half the film is devoted to a loser loan shark who wants out of the profession , even though he has only limited relevance to the movie as a whole .  the dialogue stinks .  a loan shark , for instance , tells another how much he loves bimbos , which is something the audience really doesn't need to know .  everything about possessed by the night is second rate , even the film credits .  as the names of the not-so-talented film crew scrolled by at the end , joseph scales came up , credited as being " assistsant to foley artist . "  someone could have used an editor !  to be honest , the film is basically an excuse to flash frontal nudity and show some sex scenes .  playboy playmate shannon tweed , after all , is the star here .  i suppose that if one wanted this sort of thing , he would like this movie .  why did i give this turkey two stars and not one ?  as a bad movie , it is unintentionally funny enough to keep someone passingly interested in the film .  if you feel possessed to see possessed by the night , however , i'd recommend you exorcise this impulse and watch something else . 
pos@ screen story by kevin yagher and andrew kevin walker .  screenplay by andrew kevin walker .  inspired by the short story the legend of sleepy hollow by washington irving .  directed by tim burton .  starring johnny depp , christina ricci , and casper van dien .  special appearances by christopher lee and christopher walken .  synopsis : investigator ichabod crane journeys to 1799 sleepy hollow to investigate a series of murders involving decapitation .  townspeople believe the spirit of a dead german mercenary is threatening them .  cute blonde katrina and a listless orphan help crane solve the mystery .  comments : tim burton has directed a number of entertaining and groundbreaking films over the years .  batman , of course , is perhaps his best-known film and led to a string of less successful sequels .  he's done biographical work ( on the director ed wood ) , children's movies ( nightmare before christmas ) , and a homage to alien invasion movies ( mars attacks ! ) .  sleepy hollow , his newest feature which fans have been anticipating for a while , shares the similar dark and atmospheric style of his earlier work and counts among his better movies .  sleepy hollow quite obviously draws its inspiration from the old period horror films of the 1950s and 1960s , especially hammer studios' reworkings of dracula and frankenstein , and american international's series of movies based on the works of edgar allan poe .  christopher lee , in fact , star of many hammer productions over the years , appears at the beginning of sleepy hollow as a judge who sends ichabod crane out to investigate the murders .  the movie also borrows from the universal monster movies of the 1930s .  one of the climatic scenes involves a windmill and obviously takes its cue from frankenstein .  i mention these allusions for a reason .  seasoned horror film fans , including myself , will smile at their inclusion in this film .  with the recent disappointments in theatrically released horror movies , especially the blair witch project ( the most overblown turkey of the decade ) , we needed a film like this .  not only does it have a sense of history , but burton's skillful use of setting and mood make this an entertaining exercise in horror .  the film's eerie landscapes and foggy towns , indeed , overshadow the actors and the plot as the most noteworthy aspect of the movie .  johnny depp , a veteran tim burton actor who has appeared both in ed wood and edward scissorhands , plays ichabod crane , who has apparently changed occupations from irving's original story and is now an investigator .  depp is adequate in his role .  no more ; no less .  equally adequate is christina ricci , who plays the love interest in the film .  she's a good witch too .  how cute .  one of the few weak parts of sleepy hollow is the wooden and cliched dialogue between the main characters .  the two actors , however , carry the movie well enough , but the supporting cast is what makes this movie shine .  veteran actors such as jeffrey jones and michael gough ( who played the butler alfred in all four recent batman flicks ) are terrific as the aging townsfolk involved in the conspiracy which depp uncovers .  while i do not wish to reveal crucial plot points , i can say that the storyline becomes quite confusing .  you have to pay attention .  andrew kevin walker wrote the screenplay .  he's the one who also wrote 8 mm and seven .  walker is quickly becoming one of the premiere suspense writers in hollywood , and sleepy hollow certainly doesn't hurt his growing reputation .  as one might imagine from a gentleman like walker , sleepy hollow is quite graphic .  there's a lot of blood and a lot of beheadings .  this is definately not a flick to take the young kids to .  a lady in front of us took her two young sons to see it and spent about 25 - 30 minutes covering the youngest's eyes with her hand .  he was obviously upset by the movie's intense violence .  if you're looking for a good scare , however , sleepy hollow is definately recommended . 
neg@ the main problem with martin lawrence's pet project , a thin line between love and hate , like any fatal attraction variation where the protagonist is a man , is that his character is an irresponsible jerk , and if that is the case , it doesn't seem to do anything except justify the woman's actions .  that is especially the case in lawrence's darnell wright .  he is one of those macho guys with women lined up a mile long .  now don't think i condone this just because i'm male .  my philosophy is , if you are one of the few heterosexual males lucky enough to get your hands on a beautiful , kind girl , you should treat her like a princess and respect her .  darnell doesn't think like this .  he sleeps with these girls once and dumps them .  and by the period in the film he discovered that his newest target , beautiful , wealthy brandi web ( played nicely by whitfield ) who runs a successful real estate business , is out to kill him for dumping her for his childdhood friend mia ( king ) , i found myself thinking , " i'm supposed to feel sorry for this guy ? "  after all , it is largely darnell's fault .  if he is lining up all these women , you'd think he'd have enough common sense to think it would backfire on him one day , as his mother says it does .  but he doesn't , so you get the sense that he's not only irresponsible , but also pretty dumb .  you especially get this sense that he's dumb after brandi tells him she killed her husband for allegedly abusing her .   ( i'd put my pants on in two seconds after that ! )  now , brandi is a psycho bitch , but it's hard not to agree with what she says to darnell during the finale about guys like him treating her like garbage .  one final flaw , though , is letting brandi fall for darnell to begin with .  brandi is a classy , intelligent woman with an mba from harvard , who initally resists darnell's " immature play " as she calls it , as any woman like her would in real life .  but all of a sudden she says yes .  but when you listen to darnell's four letter word vocabulary watch his actions , you wonder why such an intelligent woman would fall for a guy like darnell period , much less have such an unhealthy obsession for him !  lawrence can be good when he wants to , but in order to prove it , he needs to let other people write and direct his movies .  look at this movie .  four writers , as a result it's too long ( two hours , when it could've easily worked at ninety minutes ! ) and it has a lot of subplots and characters that appear and disappear as quickly as they came ( which makes me think the writers didn't get along ) , all of which isn't necessary .  there are some bright spots , though .  whitfield , regina king , della reese , and bobby brown all do what they can with lazily written parts , and they help it out a lot .  and there are some funny parts ( like , for example , the scene where reese attempts to fight whitfeld for harrassing her son and damaging her property ) , but they're just not enough to sustain the film . 
pos@ tibet has entered the american consciousness slowly during the past few years and burst into the forefront recently .  the dalai lama has made speaking tours , tibetan designs and artifacts are showing up in shops , the plight of the people has captured the imagination of major actors and artists and now there are two big budget films within as many months .   " kundun " ( " presence " , a name the monks call the young dalai lama ) opens in 1937 with the search for the 14th incarnation of the tibetan leader .  a group of monks enters a village and a two-year-old child catches their attention .  the young boy proves himself by identifying possessions of the previous holy man as " mine " .  he and his family are then moved to a monastery in lhassa where he is to be prepared to take his position as the religious and political leader of the country .  he is forced into difficult decisions when china invades the country in 1950 .  the peaceful and isolated country is ill-equipped to fight off the intruders and diplomatic attempts over the next years yield no results .  eventually he must make the painful choice to flee to neighboring india .  comparisons to " seven years in tibet " are inevitable .  both films cover much of the same ground although the earlier movie does so from a westerner's point of view and features boxoffice draw brad pitt .   " kundun " features only native actors and is more of an insider's story .  in some ways , this makes this film a superior concept , but it lacks the movement and spark that made " seven years " such an audience-pleaser .  the actors contribute to the realistic feel of the movie ( filmed in morocco for obvious reasons ) .  the only disappointment is chairman mao who looks like a wax dummy and moves as if he were a computer-generated character .  on an intellectual level , it is interesting to see how two different approaches handle the same facts .  some events are depicted differently and pitt's austrian mountain-climber who was portrayed as a pivotal influence in the dalai lama's life isn't even mentioned here .  glossed over in " seven years " , the problems with the tibetan political system is hinted at here as the dalai lama muses " we were just about to change things " after the chinese attack .  the film is magnificently beautiful thanks primarily to the cinematography of roger deakins .  his lingering camera shows the exotic tibetan culture with luscious detail .  especially striking is an extreme moving close up of a sand mandala grain by grain .  the visual treats more than make up for the movie's faults creating a poetic meditation for the audience .  walking out of the theater you feel like you have awakened from a transcendental experience .  martin scorsese , known for his dark tales of the underworld ( " goodfellas " , " taxi driver " , " casino " ) has shifted gears .  something of a thematic follow-up to his " the last temptation of christ " , this is his slowest film yet .  oddly enough for a director with a history of graphic violence presenting a history filled with atrocities by the chinese , most of these events take place off-screen .  his decision to not over-explain rituals is commendable .  the stumbling oracle who spits out his prophecies while in a trance state is much more effective as a mystery than if we were spoon-fed interpretations .  philip glass's score is impressive although at times it is too overwhelming and distracting .  i talked to a tibetan i met outside the theater who had just seen the film and was walking back in to see it again .  hearing his description of how he escaped from tibet at the age of seven and how his father was one of the soldiers accompanying the dalai lama during his trip to india , i was struck by what was missing in the movie .  as grand as it looks and as historically accurate as it is , there is a distance between the audience and the movie .  the film is more concerned with visuals and history and less so with human beings .  with the exception of a few scenes , involvement with the characters is slight .  one of those exceptions is the portrayal of the young dalai lama , shown as a mischievous boy who can't resist being a kid sometimes .  an encounter with his older brother thubten j . norbu ( a retired indiana university professor ) who tells the young leader the chinese have ordered him to persuade him to accept communist rule or kill him is an outstanding moment , but there aren't many of these .  even with its problems , the " kundun " experience is phenomenal , but one that i fear most will miss .  many people who saw " seven years in tibet " will have a " been there , done that " attitude .  it's likely that the film will miss a wide-spread appeal and public response will be the sound of one hand clapping . 
neg@ the thirteenth floor is a bland , obligatory exercise in genre film-making .  if i hadn't recently watched the matrix and open your eyes -- both of which are similar but far superior -- i might have been a little nicer to this picture .  craig bierko makes an adequate hero as douglas hall , the rich co-creator of a perfect human world simulation who is suddenly blamed for the murder of his boss ( armin mueller-stahl ) .  everything that was subtle and smart about the previously mentioned films is battered over our heads in this one , and characters stare at each other for maddeningly-long periods of time and refuse to communicate on any realistic level .  the acting is okay , but the film suffers from every logical flaw one could think of , and features a script ( co-penned by director josef rusnak ) loaded with cliches and stock characters .  there are individual scenes and ideas that work -- i like the thought of a sentient computer program -- but none of the film's strengths are recognized to any meaningful degree .  producer roland emmerich , based on this and his previous directorial efforts , seems hell-bent on bringing us the ultimate standard in mediocre science-fiction . 
pos@  " the faculty , " the heavily-hyped and advertised sci-fi/horror film that has teamed up director robert rodriguez ( 1995's " desperado " and 1996's " from dusk till dawn " ) and screenwriter kevin williamson ( 1996's " scream " and 1997's " scream 2 " ) , is being called a cross between " invasion of the body snatchers " and " the breakfast club , " and i don't think i could describe it any better than that .  the film sets up the six central teenage characters who do not seem to have much in common , and then the science-fiction aspect is added , involving the fear that the faculty at herrington high school are actually aliens who are quickly transforming everyone in the town .  the six characters , as in " the breakfast club , " can be easily labeled as a stereotype , but as they are developed , they become far more complex : casey ( elijah wood ) , the much picked upon nerd ; stokely ( clea duvall ) , a goth outcast who hides behind the false facade of being a lesbian so everyone will avoid her ; zeke ( josh hartnett ) , a drug dealer who turns out to be a science whiz ; stan ( shawn hatosy ) , the star football quarterback who is considering quitting the team to concentrate more on academics ; delilah ( jordanna brewster ) , the popular cheerleader and newspaper journalist ; and marybeth ( laura harris ) , the sweet 'n southern new girl in town .  although the characters are only slightly connected ( i . e .  casey is delilah's photojournalist assistant ; marybeth tries to become buddies with stokely , since they both don't have friends , etc . ) , when they all begin to suspect the teachers due to some grotesque and strange occurrences , the only people they can count on for help is each other , even though they aren't really even sure if they can trust one another .   " the faculty " is another smart and pop-culturally hip film from williamson , although it does not equal up to his best film , the original " scream , " and rodriguez , whose " from dusk till dawn " is still one of the more original genre films of the 90's .  williamson and rodriguez are so assured at their professions , respectively , that the idea of teaming up together is pretty much a no-brainer .  the plotline of " the faculty , " involving aliens taking over other people's bodies , has been done quite a lot before , from " invasion of the body snatchers , " to " the puppet masters , " to " invaders from mars , " so one of the obstacles that williamson and rodriguez had to overcome was to somehow make the idea seem fresh , and by setting the goings-on at a high school and having the protagonists be a group of teens , they were mostly successful .  surely , the conventions of the story are still the same , and the climax was inevitable , but there were a few surprises along the way , including the question of who were the aliens , and who weren't .  the epilogue was also a refreshing change-of-pace as it did not set up a sequel but ended on a note that probably could not have been any better .  the performances in " the faculty " were a treat throughout , since there were so many recognizable actors in roles that were the polar opposite of what they usually do .  one exception were the teens , who , aside from elijah wood , are not very well-known , but they all aquit themselves nicely , particularly wood ( the seasoned pro ) , clea duvall , and jordanna brewster .  as members of the faculty , robert patrick ( " t2 : judgement day " ) was creepy as the gym coach ; piper laurie was amusing and threatening as the drama teacher ; bebe neuwirth actually was somehow able to look like an alien ; and salma hayek , as the school nurse with a bad case of the cold , was very funny in a small role .  the standout , in my opinion , of the whole cast was famke janssen who turns in an oddly touching performance as the shy and meek english teacher who , after turning into an alien , becomes the sex bombshell .  if there was any problem i had with the faculty , it was that some of them were given no real payoff in the climactic sequence .  since the teenagers realize that in order to save everyone they must kill the " queen " alien , many of the faculty members disappear .  it might have been more fun if they had to face every one of the teachers , although the finale is still pretty impressive , and includes some showstopping creature effects , especially for a relatively low 15-million-dollar budget .  although not one of the best horror or science-fiction films i have seen , " the faculty " is still an exciting and worthy film that dimension films was smart to release around the holiday season when this type of genre offering is usually not released .  while the story is as old as the hills , it is also , in a way , timeless , because everyone , i think , has suspected at one time or another that a certain person simply did not act right , as if they really weren't human .  and by putting this idea in the setting of a small-town high school , it perfectly contrasts with the alienation that most teenagers usually go through when relating to adults and other peers .  + note : the ad and poster campaign for this film is hugely misleading , as it features r & b artist usher raymond as one of the main characters .  in actuality , he only has a small role as one of stan's buddies who becomes quarterback after stan resigns from the team .  if i were one of the heads from dimension , i would change this advertising at once , since it is unnecessary and rather deceiving . 
neg@ in the finale of disney's " mighty joe young , " a 15-foot tall , 2000-pound gorilla holds a frightened young boy in its clutches as it topples from a crippled ferris wheel and plummets to the ground .  upon impact , rugged everyman and perennial do-gooder bill paxton rushes in , containing the emotional crowd with an earnest " move along now folks , there's nothing to see here . "  ok , so those aren't exactly the words he uses , but it's probably one of the few clich ? s not uttered in this unnecessary remake of an unnecessary remake of that mother of all monster movies , " king kong . "  1949's " mighty joe young " was an update of that classic creature feature , also based on merian c . cooper's original story ( 16 years after " 'kong " it appeared the world was ready for a new take on the beauty and the beast fable ) .  now some 49 years later , at least according to disney's way of thinking , the world is ready for one more .  not so .  the only--and i mean only--reason to see the 1998 version is for the special effects .  and these , unfortunately , run hot and cold .  today's joe young is designed and produced by special-effects whiz rick baker , who has been wowing audiences with his state-of-the-art make-up effects since 1971's " schlock " ( which , incidentally , featured a baker-enhanced " gorilla " ) .  joe is a combination of animatronic effects , computer graphics , and that old standard , a man in a monkey suit .  while there are occasional flashes of brilliance--baker's had a lot of practice with simian effects , after all , including " gorillas in the mist , " " greystoke : the legend of tarzan , lord of the apes , " and the 1976 remake of " king kong " --there's also some surprising cheesiness .  one of the film's most embarrassing moments is when paxton's band of african trackers first encounter and pursue the larger-than-life primate ( in a scene unashamedly ripped off from " the lost world : jurassic park " ) .  paxton jubilantly extols the beast's majestic gait at the same exact moment as joe , and the computer effects driving him , stutter to a halt .  also , if the film's producers had wanted us to focus our attentions on the titular ape they shouldn't have paraded female lead charlize theron ( " trial & error " ) around in a seemingly-endless wardrobe of spaghetti-strapped tops .  even joe seems distracted at times .  the film piles on the clich ? s like there's no tomorrow , including the predictable plot ( anthro-zoologists ship gigantic gorilla to l . a . where urban havoc is inevitably wrought ) , predictable villain ( a lithuanian i think i overheard someplace ) , predictable love story ( bill and charlize--surprise ! ) , and predictable denouement ( " 'twas box-office receipts that killed the beast " ) .  kids raised on " men in black " ( non-monkey effects also by baker ) are going to find ron ( " tremors " ) underwood's outing a little lame by comparison .  while certainly better than 1978's " king kong lives " ( itself a lousy sequel to a not particularly good remake ) , " mighty joe young " proves how the mighty keep falling . 
pos@  " . . it's certainly more than just a monster story . . "  - kenneth branagh , director/actor/co-writer of mary shelley's frankenstein .  kenneth branagh's new motion picture had to compete with all the previous frankenstein-films made throughout the years in almost every part of the world , including the most controversial version of them all - directed by james whale .  the dark and stormy nights , the lightning bolts , the charnel houses of spare body parts , the laboratory where victor frankenstein stirs his steaming cauldron of life are effectful .  but the center of the film , quieter and more thoughtful , contains the real story .  horror-fans will probably be disappointed by the total lack of horror .  branagh has instead concentrated on serious issues : morality , philosophy and human elements of the story , and not on old fashioned horror cliches .  his version is much closer to the book than all the previous adaptions of the classic novel .  the film begins and ends somewhere in the arctic ocean .  the year is 1794 .  a bold captain is steering his ship through the unknown waters .  his gole is to reach the north pole at all costs .  as the ice closes around his ship , a figure appears on the horizon .  it's a man .  exhausted and on the brink of death he approaches the frightening crew .  his name is victor frankenstein ( kenneth branagh ) and his story is so terrifying that it will scare everyone from venturing into the unknown .  the myserious stranger begins his tale , or more precisely his confession , in geneva , 1773 .  he is remembering his childhood and youth .  laughter , banquets and parties - a happy life , without troubles or concerns .  here victor lived with his father ( ian holm ) , mother ( cherie lunghi ) , his surrogate sister ( helena boham carter ) and his servants in happiness and harmony .  this idyllic lifestyle is suddenly changed .  like thunder from a quite sky , his mother dies , giving birth to his youngest brother .  shocked , baffled and then gradually changed by grief and despair , victor ( already interested in science ) becomes obsessed with death .  standing on his mother's grave he says : " oh mother . . you  did not have to die . . . no one should ever die . . . i  will stop this . . i  promiss . . "  after proposing marridge to his surrogate sister and promising to return as soon as his studies are finished , victor travels to ingolstadt , in presuite of a medical career .  after a while his obsession totally overtakes him as he is working day and night , creating life from death .  composing dead bodies , frankenstein wanted to create the perfect man - both physically and mentally .  with strong electrical impulses , he managed to breeth life into his creation .  the result was ugliness .  realizing what he has done , frankenstein tried to undo his work , but it was to late .  the creature has escaped .  because of the epidemic , frankenstein hoped that his creation has died and returned to his home , making plans for the wedding .  for a while everything is as it was before his mother's death .  but then one by one his loved once are dying mysteriously . . .  whale's picture , although powerful , never managed to capture the total depth of the novel .  brannagh has more or less done that .  another thing is characters and actors .  branagh has developed every character and assembled a magnificent cast .  the greatest performances comes from de niro - the monster , that has been played by ( among others ) charles ogle , karloff , lon chaney , bela lugosi , glenn strange , christopher lee , fred gwynne ( as herman munster ) , and now , robert de niro .  alone , hated and feared , he is completely aware of his ugliness .  at first he is like a helpless , abandoned child , desperately reaching out for love .  later when he reads frankenstein's journal , and learns that he is composed of dead bodies , his love turns into rage as he is seeking revenge .  he is capable of killing without regret .   " i took him by the throughout and lifted him off the ground . . . . and  then i slowly crushed his neck . . . and  as i killed him , i saw your face . . "  that is how he reveals his savage nature to his creator .  and yet , he is never quite evil in our eyes and his vaulerbility and his loneliness are palpable : " for the sympathy of one living being i would make peace with all . "  rarely has a cinematic interpretation of " the daemon " approached the level of three-dimensionality and humanity with which it is portrayed in the novel .  another vital thing is the character of victor frankenstein .  in most of the previous adaptions he was simply a mad scientist that trolls the graveyards for corpses and then creates a monster ( god knows why ! ) with the power of an electrical storm .  almost no time was granted on his charecter , who is the most important and vital charecter in the novel .  here , branagh introduces the character of victor frankenstein , establishes his obsession with the very nature of life and death , sets up the intellectual and ideological conflict between victor and the academic establishment , and somehow manages to build up to a rousing and horrifying creation scene .  branagh plays frankenstein with a remarkable understanding of his character .  on the outside he is strong , ambitious and talented scientist , but deep down he is unsecure , fragile and vaulerble , constantly haunted by the ghosts from his past .  helen boham carter is equally wonderful as frankenstein's surrogate sister , who at the end becomes his wife for a little while , before death drives them apart .  the rest of the cast , playing secondary characters , is solid and nothing less than convincing .  visually the film is stunning ( especially the makeup ) .  the spinning camera , the constantly building-up musical acore , the art direction , the production design , the costumes are all magnificent : from the arctic ocean to the swiss alps and dark forests , to the plague-riddled streets of ingolstadt , mary shelley's frankenstein is a wonder to behold .  kenneth branagh directs his film as if the script was written by shakespeare : " . . all  i once loved lies in a shallow grave . . . . by  my hand . . " .  and the film ends exacly as hamlet , when the creature sets both his and his creator's body on fire .  the film ends with frankenstein and his creation burning in the almost hellish fire in the darkness .  and a terrifying last close-up on the creature's smiling face .  can a man create life , then abandon his creation because its appearance horrifies him ?  to whom are its actions then attributable : the creature or the being who brought about its existence ?  shelley did not answer these questions , but she certainly posed them .  following her example , branagh does the same .  his film is a tragic saga about playing god .  victor frankenstein is not an evil man .  he wanted to change the world to the better .  in this he represents everything science stands for : acting without doubts , never considering the consequences of his actions .  produced by francis ford coppola , frankenstein resembles in some respects coppolas previous film " dracula " .  in comparison , i can say that " dracula " has visuals that even " frankenstein " can not live up to .  but when it comes to story , characters and casting , " frankenstein " is stronger .  but stronger than both of them , on every aspect , is neil jordan's " interview with the vampire " .  although the film is not perfect ( the camera that simply refuses to stay still and the occasionally pushy score are at times more tiering than effective ) , these minor faults are easily forgivable , as the picture is otherwise captivating and stimulating .  branagh has probably created one of the best ( if not the best ) adaptions of shelly's classic novel . 
neg@ m : i-2 , the sequel to mission impossible , is a james bond wannabe film , but it fails to even come close to that film in wit , humor , and entertainment value .  it tries to be a spy/romance movie , but without any suspense the film just looks like it's an extended commercial for dudes who think they look cool in throwaway sunglasses .  it is a film that prefers techie gadgets to anything human .  the coolest thing about this movie , was all the holes it had in its story and the most trite thing about the movie , was the usage of doves throughout as peace symbols .  the film plays as if it was a wet fantasy dream about techie violence .  except for the choreographed action sequences , the film was dull for three-quarters of its time , filled with too many dead spots in its story to garner concern about its wooden characters or the superficial romance that developed .  as for the action scenes , they might look good to those who are converts to violence in their films , but their advertisement for sadistic responses , is nothing short of mindless cartoon violence , which makes it very difficult to sit back and applaud without feeling put off by the gratuitous cruelty seen .  m : i-2 opens and closes with fast-paced action scenes , but it is hard to get past the middle part which just drags on in banal dialogue .  the film looks as if it had been invaded by a computer virus , at that point .  the only thing that kept me awake , was the horrible music composed by hans zimmer that became very loud at any of the film's supposedly momentous action scenes and seemed to make an uninteresting scene even more noticeable in the wrong way .  it's a mega-buck film adapted from a popular high-tech gadgetry tv series .  but its artistic success is an impossible task to accomplish because it hired the wrong director and actors to star in it , and it failed to produce a story that had any substance .  john woo ( " broken arrow " / " face/off " ) is good at doing car chases , choreographed fights with midair flips and kung-fu kicks , slo-mo shots of two guns blazing , and of fire explosions , but he just can't seem to handle dialogue and suspense .  the star of the film and co-producer , tom cruise , and his romantic interest , thandie newton , are miscast .  cruise is no james bond and looks more like a yuppie than a superhero in his stylish long hair and innocuous smile , as he tries to carry off this macho role , while thandie is not an action-film girl , and seems like a fish- out-of-water in this one .  their romance didn't work , not only was it tepid and not sexy , but it wasn't convincing .  the film opens with dizzying speed , perhaps with the hope that a befuddled audience is its best bet for success .  we will be in three different locations instantaneously : sydney , the american southwest , and seville .  first , we are in sydney , australia , where a scientist with a muffled russian accent , dr . nekhorvich ( rade ) , mentions that he created a deadly killer virus called chimera and an antidote for it .  he also mentions that every hero needs a worthy villain .  which explains the film's mythic theme . . . as  we enter the world of comic book myths on good and evil .  the one who played the villain , dougray scott , does so in a one-dimensional gruff tone , which did not distinguish him in that role .  at least , if the film got the villain part right , it might have had some fun with this nonsense .  soon the diabolical scientist is on a plane talking to someone he trusts called dimitri , but then the plane is taken over by terrorists who set it on automatic pilot and crash it into the rocky mountains .  before they crash the plane and parachute out of it , the one who was posing as dimitri , turns out to be sean ambrose ( scott ) , a rogue member of the imf , which is a cia-like clone .  he steals the package with the antidote , peels off a latex mask , which is a replica of the hero of the story , ethan hunt ( cruise ) , who had posed as dimitri to the scientist before and had thereby gained his trust .  sean and his group of terrorists carry out this attack because they plan a virus plague on the world and then to sell the victims the antidote at marked up prices .  we already saw the gimmick of peeling masks used in face/off and in the original mission impossible , which as convoluted a plot as that film had , it was still a superior film to this sequel .  woo has run this peeling mask routine into the ground , as it is used so often in this film by both sides , so much so , that it blurs any ethical character differences between good guy or villain .  it makes it seem as if anyone could be another character , which distorts the reality of the film and makes it impossible for the film to make much sense .  next we are in a mountain range in the american southwest , and ethan is on vacation , hanging by his fingertips while climbing and looking cool , when a helicopter with his boss anthony hopkins aboard , delivers via a rocket launcher , a pair of talking sunglasses .  hunt learns his next mission is to retrieve the chimera package and he is allowed to pick two regular imf agents to help , billy baird ( john polson ) and luther stickell ( ving rhames ) , with luther running a high-gadget computer , but he also must get a jewel thief named nyah hall ( thandie ) to join his team .  he is told , as an incentive to recruit her , all her criminal charges will be dropped .  hopkins then signs off with the tag line : this message will self-destruct in five seconds .  actually , with the departure of hopkins , it was this disposable film that actually self-destructed at this point .  in seville , hunt recruits nyah into the team in the middle of a jewel heist and a subsequent car chase , where he nearly runs her audi sports car over the side of a mountain road .  he also falls for her when this was only supposed to be a business deal , and learns that she is valuable because her ex-boyfriend was sean ambrose and that he still wants to f * ck her .  the imf team then inject a location tracer chip into her to spot sean so she can go f * ck him , as she leads them to his hide-out in the seaside of australia in which he shares with his sneering villainous cohort , the south african , hugh stamp ( richard roxburgh ) .  robert towne , the screenwriter , who contributed to the first " mission , " who is noted for doing " chinatown " -- writes a colorless , pedestrian script , one that fails even to be funny in a camp way .  the terrorists , who aim to rule the world , are interested in owning 51 percent in a biotech company and in getting stock options , as they plan to infect sydney with the virus and have their company sell the antidote , insuring that they will make billions on the stock .  ethan comes to the rescue of the world and of nyah , with his only conflict being who is more important to save first .  ethan does this rescue against all odds , as he finds a way to penetrate a security tight biotech company , fight it out with sean and the other terrorists , and rescue nyah , who injected herself with the virus to hinder sean's getting it , as the only way to transport the virus is through another person or from the vaccine needle .  ethan rescues her by doing stunt riding on a motorcycle , using kick-boxing , winning a shootout , throwing a full john wayne supply of grenades at the terrorists , making some more use out of that peeling mask bit , and by being completely fearless and larger than life , while he kick's everyone's ass .  if i was only entertained by this . . . i  could have lived with it .  but this film was so badly made , that it was like watching a highlight film of a basketball game , seeing only the slam-dunks , but with the game itself being excluded from the telecast .  in any case , this is a critic-proof film , and will in all probability do well in the box office , as it was made to appeal to all the demographics who find commercial ventures like this one easy to buy into . 
pos@ ever wonder what happened to gabe kaplan ?  you remember , he was the title character in that 70's sitcom , " welcome back kotter . "  always trying to help out the sweathogs , frequently trying to dodge mr . woodman , ever wary of his wife's tuna casserole .   " so , " you ask , " where is he now ? "  mr . kaplan actually spends much of his time these days playing professional high-stakes poker .  that's right .  i'm not sure if it's his main source of income , but from what i've heard , the guy occasionally comes away with $20 , 000 at a time .  and there you were , thinking i was going to tell you he was doing off-broadway theater .  you silly goose .  well , gabe kaplan isn't in the movie rounders , nor is the film about the actor come gambler's life .  but rounders is about poker , and gabe plays poker , and i thought that was kind of a neat connection .  sorry about the segue , or lack thereof .  matt damon plays mike mcdermott , a law student who also has a singular talent for the game of poker .  he's been playing for a while , and more than being proficient , he has caught the bug .  he goes to all the underground games in new york city , knows the regulars , and knows how to win .  in the beginning of the film , he's built up a nice thirty grand nest egg , which he takes to the speakeasy-type gaming parlor where the big boys play .  mike is there to make his bid into the upper echelon by staking it all against teddy kgb ( john malkovich ) , an oreo-munching cardshark with ties to the russian mafia .  mike has the potential to take a large pot and go to vegas and buy into the world series of poker , but instead he loses it all in a single hand .  months later , he's paying his way through law school by driving a delivery truck .  when mike's best friend and poker buddy worm ( edward norton ) finishes his jail term for hustling some students , he wants to pick up right were they left off , working as a team to part others with their betting cash .  although mike has stopped playing cards as a promise to his girlfriend and fellow law student , jo ( gretchen mol ) , worm connives mike into playing once more , and mike , bitten again by the bug , slides down that slippery slope , risking his relationship , education , and reputation as playing poker again becomes the focus of his life .  to make a film about gambling , a filmmaker will usually have to play up the glamorous side to get the audience behind the characters .  this is because few moviegoers will care a whole lot about some guy in a leisure suit or terry cloth shirt sitting at a folding card table with a stogie in his mouth .  rounders , however , seems to go more for the latter than the former .  the card clubs mike and worm frequent aren't very glamorous at all .  there's a basement , a lodge with elk heads on the wall , a goulash joint - these are the kinds of locales in which director john dahl sets his shots .  except for one brief instance when the two players visit atlantic city , the film is bereft of the flashing lights of the casinos or the pleasant color of the green felt table .  the reason rounders still captures our attention is because it is less about the game of poker than it is about the personalities which enjoy and are slaves to it .  we're given a nice set of interesting characters with clear motivations , and good actors to play them .  matt damon is very natural as mike , who struggles between his desire to play the straight and narrow by finishing law school , and answering what may be his true calling , playing professional poker .  ed norton's worm is truly a worm , always looking for the angle and playing everyone for what they're worth .  john turturro , who amazes me with his acting range , tones it down in this film by playing joey knish , a virtual poker prodigy in his time who now plays the underground games to make rent and child support payments .  he's both a friend and mentor to mike , and turturro's low-key performance is totally convincing , just as john malkovich's heavily-accented teddy kgb is imposing as an adversarial dragon mike must slay to prove himself .  martin landau is also thrown into the mix as one of mike's law professors , abe petrovsky .  while landau slips well into the role , his character , spitting out personal anecdotes about staying true to one's self , facilitates the channeling of the storyline toward a predictable ending .  perhaps the weak link in the otherwise formidable line-up of acting talent , however , is gretchen mol who just didn't seem to have much presence on screen .  she's a genuine peach to look at , kind of a cross between actress renee zellweger and singer jewel ( and i wouldn't be surprised if the three of them formed some kind of blond-haired triumvirate and attempted to take over the world ) , but her delivered lines seemed very flat , and i found myself looking for matt damon's reactions instead .  a good thing about rounders is that it doesn't get bogged down in the character development and statement making so much that it can't find time for humor .  the film is peppered nicely with scenes that both make you laugh and keep the pacing going , such as a sequence where mike and worm move rapidly around new york from one game to the next , in widely different locales .  one game in a cigar club had me in stitches .   " i love the sweetness of this dark maduro wrapper , " says one of the players , clearly more interested in displaying his pretentiousness over the cigar in one hand than in the cards in his other .  i was hoping mike and worm would really take these guys .  with all the poker being played , rounders had the potential to be very confusing .  you might think you know a lot about poker , but think again .  luckily , we're given a narration by damon during the more intricate moments to explain what's going on .  the narrations are more informative than intrusive , and apprise us of what the stakes are and why certain players want to do the things they do .  it's nice that as the characters develop , so does our comprehension of their world .  as a film about success and survival in the realm of underground poker , rounders delivers in spades .  wait !  as a film about the culture of cards , rounders is an ace .  hang on !  packed with great acting and great characters , rounders is a full house .  okay , i guess that's enough .  oh , by the way , if you ever want to get into a game with ol' gabe kaplan , be sure to bring a note from epstein's mother . 
neg@ over 40 years ago , a japanese production company called toho introduced the land of the rising sun to gojira , a reptilian creature of immense proportions created by mankind's nuclear testing .  partly flight of fancy , partly commentary on the exploitation of atomic power and weaponry , gojira emerged from the ocean to terrorize tokyo .  a year later , gojira was marketed to the united states by adding three things : a new name , a dubbed english track , and raymond burr .  as godzilla , the film took on the rest of the world .  thirty years later , toho remade the classic film and once again took it to the american market by adding the same three things ( yes , including raymond burr ) and called it godzilla 1985 .  now it's 14 years after toho's remake , and director roland emmerich has allowed the giant lizard to make an american first run .  in emmerich's godzilla , matthew broderick plays dr . niko tatopoulos , a biologist who is called in to join other scientists in the south pacific already studying the existence of a radiation-induced super mutant which leaves footprints the size of livingrooms .  when the mutant reptile suddenly appears out of the hudson river , tatopoulos and the rest of the team relocate themselves back to the states .  meanwhile , tatopoulos's college girlfriend , audrey timmonds ( maria pitillo ) , works in new york city as an assistant to a big-time news reporter .  she'd like to be a reporter herself , and when godzilla comes ashore , she figures this is her big break .  of course , with the big guy running amok in the city , niko and audrey are bound to cross paths , and are joined by victor " animal " palotti ( hank azaria ) , audrey's trusty cameraman friend , and phillipe roche ( jean reno ) , an operative for the french government , whose nuclear testing started the whole problem in the first place .  together they attempt to find and destroy the surprisingly elusive godzilla .  with the resources of the most cutting edge special effects houses and the clout of one of the nation's premiere movie production companies , one would think emmerich could make a film truly deserving of the name godzilla .  he didn't .  right up there with the lost world , godzilla is one of the biggest disappointments in recent cinematic history .  the plot is pretty much what we expect : the big dinosaur-like creature comes out of the water and starts smashing new york city , and it's up to our heroes to figure out why this thing is on its rampage and how it can be stopped , while the military makes futile attempts to bring the creature down .  the script , however , is painfully bad .  it's fraught with lines so corny , they don't even belong in b-movies , and includes many character actions which make you think , " you idiot , " or " you stupid girl . "  i suppose when you've got a movie with a giant lizard loose in new york , any other semblance of reality goes out the window as well .  why is it that godzilla topples some buildings by merely brushing against them , but is conveniently able to leap atop others ?  why do helicopters have to follow godzilla by flying dangerously between buildings where they can lose sight of him , when they could more easily keep track of him by flying a little higher and in a straight line ?  why do sidewinder missiles , which have small explosive warheads , blow up entire buildings when they miss godzilla ?  why is a mission to bomb madison square garden carried out by three f-18 fighter-bombers , when flights of such aircraft are always comprised of multiples of two ?  okay , maybe the last one was a bit nit-picky , but hey , i was on a roll .  broderick is usually a good actor , but in this film he's weighed down by an unexciting character and an atrocious screenplay which seem to fight against him every step of the way .  hank azaria does what he can , but don't expect to see development of any of the promise he showed in the birdcage .  like broderick's , azaria's character is quite simply lacking in color .  what really annoyed me was maria pitillo , who actually takes the bad script and makes it worse with her acting .  casting must have been asleep on this one .  the one bright spot here is jean reno , who oddly enough seems to fit well into a role which is often comedic , quite unlike what we've seem him do in the past .  although his character is contradictory to the unfolding disaster , reno brings a style to the role of phillipe which makes him enjoyable .  unfortunately , the same cannot be said of the other incongruities .  the entire feel of the movie is tongue-in-cheek , and seems to pay comical homage to a dozen or so films that have come before it .  this results in a significant amount of parody , which contrasts sharply with the threat of the monster , and ends up just producing a mess .  most of the characters seem to be there for comic relief , and almost none are smart enough for the audience to take seriously .  although emmerich obviously wanted to make a fun action picture , what good is it to sink millions into a cgi creature whose ferocity is undermined by the humans he threatens ?  if we can't take the characters seriously , the threat they face is an empty one because we simply don't care what happens to them .  godzilla simply pulls too many punches in its attempt to be a film more light-hearted than it should be .  far be it from me to want to see more carnage in the theaters , but here's a behemoth running through the city !  there's bound to be a lot of casualties , but instead godzilla is afflicted with the after-school g . i .  joe cartoon syndrome , where almost everyone seems to get out of harm's way just in time .  in a couple of scenes , godzilla briefly breathes fire .  none of the characters even remark upon this ability , nor is it used to any particular advantage by the filmmakers .  it's as if the special effects people just wanted to show that yes , godzilla can do this , just like in the old movie .  consider another punch pulled .  through creative script writing , you can make a sequel out of just about any movie , but the final scene in this one doesn't just leave the door open , it opens into a hallway leading directly into a room where godzilla ii is waiting patiently .  it made me want to gag .  emmerich should have done away with 90% of the humor and in-jokes and played this one as a straight action film .  with an intelligently written screenplay , godzilla could have been so much more .  however , by confusing the viewer with a ton of add-ins and parodies , the movie ends up being something that just doesn't work .  now if they only had raymond burr . . . . 
pos@ after watching " rat race " last week , i noticed my cheeks were sore and realized that , when not laughing aloud , i had held a grin for virtually all of the film's 112 minutes .  saturday night , i attended another sneak preview for the movie and damned if i didn't enjoy it as much the second time as the first .   " rat race " is a great goofy delight , a dandy mix of energetic performances , inspired sight gags and flat-out silliness .  hands down , this is the most fun film of the summer .  the movie begins with zippy retro-style opening credits that look like they were torn straight out of a '60s slapstick comedy , featuring animated photos of the cast attached to herky-jerky bodies bounding around the screen .  then comes the setup .  donald sinclair ( john cleese ) , the extremely rich owner of the venetian hotel and casino in las vegas , enjoys concocting unusual bets for his high rolling clients .  to that end , he places a half dozen very special tokens in his slot machines .  gathering together the lucky token holders , he explains , " today you have a chance to play a game where the odds of winning are one in six . "  the competition is simple : each contestant gets a key that opens a locker in silver city , n . m . , containing $2 million in cash .  there is a transmitter in every key , so that sinclair and his cronies can keep track of who is ahead .  the race has no rules ? whichever contestant reaches the locker first gets the money .  since it would be wrong to spoil any of the jokes , let's use the next few paragraphs to profile the racers .  decked out in flashy , trashy clothing and sporting big hair , vera baker ( whoopi goldberg ) is in town to reunite with the daughter she gave up for adoption as a baby .  she finds that grown-up merrill ( lanai chapman ) is erudite , conservative and more than a little bit wary of this stranger trying to jump into her life .  thrown together , it becomes clear that both women share a fierce competitive nature .  owen templeton ( cuba gooding jr . ) is currently the most hated man in america .  an nfl referee , he cost gamblers all over the country enormous amounts of money by blowing a call in a high-profile game .  after escaping from a vengeful cab driver , owen gets to new mexico by masquerading as the driver for a busload of lucy ricardo impersonators heading to a convention .  mr . pollini ( rowan atkinson ) is a cheerful , odd little italian man on holiday in america .  he also is narcoleptic and falls asleep at the most inopportune times .  pollini hitches a ride with zack ( wayne knight ) , a hyper-tense ambulance driver carrying a human heart across country for a transplant operation .  randy pear ( jon lovitz ) promised his wife beverly ( kathy najimy ) and two kids a fun-filled vacation in las vegas .  fearful that beverly will be angry over his involvement in the race , he claims that he must travel to silver city for a job interview .  beverly insists the family stay together , so they hop in the mini-van and tear off into the desert .  brothers duane ( seth green ) and blaine ( vince vieluf ) cody are young , crooked and stupid .  blaine has a speech impediment due to his poorly self-done tongue piercing , and duane is the only person who can come close to understanding him .  the boys will stop at nothing to reach their goal .  finally , nick shaffer ( breckin meyer ) is a no-nonsense lawyer-in-training who recruits helicopter pilot tracy faucet ( amy smart ) for the journey .  at first glance , they seem blandly wholesome , but all that changes when tracy buzzes the home of her boyfriend shawn ( dean cain ) and spies him swimming with another woman .  director jerry zucker ( " airplane , " " ghost " ) leaps from racer to racer , periodically returning to las vegas where sinclair and mr . grisham ( dave thomas ) , his personality-impaired right hand man , continue cooking up bizarre bets for the gamblers .  as with any zucker production , a few jokes fall flat , but the momentum of the comedy zooms past those missteps .  high points for me include a bit involving kathy bates as a roadside squirrel salesperson and an intricately set up gag that carries jon lovitz and family from a bizarre museum to an outdoor rally , with an utterly tasteless and screamingly funny pay-off .  had i been part of the filmmaking team , i would have ditched a joke where a key is dropped into a baby's clothes and instead had the key get lost in the cleavage of a dozing society matron .  it would have drawn the same laugh without the squirm-inducing hint of child molestation .  i also would have selected a different band for a concert sequence .  my god , do we really need yet another movie with smash mouth performing " all star ? "  but enough carping .   " rat race " is a riot , with terrific no-holds-barred performances from the diverse cast .  see it , see it again and when the dvd comes out , buy it , because a movie this hilarious will surely have outtakes to die for . 
neg@ talk about beating a dead horse !  when home alone was released in 1990 , it was a breath of fresh air , and the final box office tally indicated how much audiences appreciated a genuinely-funny family film .  the unexpectedly high gross guaranteed a sequel , so , two years later , we were subjected to home alone 2 , which might as well have been called clone alone for all of the originality it exhibited .  for john hughes , two home alone movies weren't enough ? he began recycling the same kinds of villains and situations in almost every movie he was involved with , including a pathetic box office bomb called baby's day out , last year's live-action 101 dalmatians , and this year's flubber .  now , inexplicably , hughes has exhumed not only these worn-out plot elements , but the " home alone " name as well .  the result ? 1997's worst sequel ( edging out speed 2 and batman and robin ) , home alone 3 .  by changing the characters , hughes ( who wrote and co-produced the film ) , along with his co-conspirator , director raja gosnell , has attempted to inject new life into a series that is way past the point of cardiac arrest .  the new kid , alex pruitt , is played by alex d . linz ( one fine day ) , and the only thing he has going for him is terminal cuteness .  he's not half as interesting as macaulay culkin once was .  the villains , pale copies of joe pesci and daniel stern , are even less engaging than the pair of idiots in flubber .  in home alone 3 , there are four of them ( olek krupa , david thornton , lenny von dohlen , and rya kihlstedt ) , but all that means is an opportunity for twice as many pratfalls .  this time , the kid isn't left home alone because his parents have gone on a trip .  instead , he has developed a bad case of chicken pox , so he can't go to school .  his dad ( kevin kilner ) is away on business and his mom ( haviland morris ) has to run errands , so , for the most part , he's all by himself during the day .  through a series of coincidences too irritating to relate , a top secret u . s . air force integrated circuit comes into his possession .  it's wanted by a gang of four international crooks who intend to break into alex's home to retrieve it .  the eight- year old , who is wise beyond his years , booby traps the house with all sorts of rube goldberg-type devices designed to humiliate and incapacitate the villains .  the movie's climax takes place during a raging snowstorm ? only none of the falling flakes looks remotely believable .  previously , the most counterfeit-looking snow effects i can remember were in star trek iii .  these are far worse .  in fact , the production values are so shoddy that there are some scenes in the midst of this near-blizzard when a shining sun can be seen .  if it's a wonderful life could generate real- looking snow back in the 1940s , why can't home alone 3 , which has a significantly larger budget and '90s technology at its disposal ?  there has been an ongoing debate regarding the appropriateness of live-action cartoon violence for young children .  home alone 3 will add fuel to the fire .  it's one thing to see wyle e . coyote flattened by a 10 ton acme weight , but quite another to watch a running lawn mower fall on lenny von dohlen .  adults and even older children will recognize that this is obviously fake and intended to be humorous , but what about five and six-year olds ?  the level of violence in home alone 3 is extreme ? many of alex's schemes are nasty enough to kill .  but , because this is a " family film , " no one dies , despite being electrocuted , falling thirty feet , and getting smacked on the head by a barbell .  not only is home alone 3 unnecessary , but it's offensive .  it's an exercise in tediousness , and there isn't a genuine laugh to be found from the beginning to the end ( unless , by some strange quirk of fate , you have missed every 1990s movie associated with john hughes , and thus haven't seen this stuff before ) .  i can't imagine anyone with a reasonable attention span being more than momentarily distracted by this pointless adventure .  maybe that's why the only ones laughing at the screening i attended were still in their thumb-sucking years . 
pos@ reflecting on " bedazzled , " a lively comedy about the devil who seeks to possess the soul of a pathetic loser , one sinful thought remains in my mind .  if hell means having to spend an eternity with elizabeth hurley ( who portrays the fiery demon ) , then use that pitchfork and point me the way .  with her pouty lips , irresistible british accent , and wild display of haute couture , hurley crackles with naughtiness and fills your mind with temptation .  it's practically impossible to turn this beelzu-babe down .  her next target is elliot ( brendan fraser ) , a tech support geek who is clumsy , awkward , and just too eager to please .  to aptly picture him , you would have to remember a saturday night live skit featuring " steve the copy guy " who effortlessly irritated his co-workers with his unpolished social skills .  eugene , thus , is loathed and feared by his co-workers , who do their best to stay out of his way .  yet , beyond his annoying mannerisms , he's a lovable oaf .  he wishes that he could get closer to allison ( frances o'connor ) , a co-worker with whom he is infatuated but who has never taken notice of him .  however , the odds of him getting together with her are about the same as a snowball's chance in hell .   " dear god , " he prays .   " i would give anything to have that girl in my life . "  guess who then shows up ?  she makes an offer that is too hard to refuse .   " seven utterly fabulous wishes for one piddling little soul . "  there's even an escape clause .  if elliot's wish doesn't go exactly the way he likes , he need only 'beep' her ( one guess as to what the three-digit number is ) and he gets to start over .  the remainder of the film consists of elliot's various fantasies that incorporate his personal desire to have enormous amounts of wealth , power , fame and allison's love .  but when he makes sweeping statements such as " i want to be very , very powerful and very , very rich and married to allison " , he'll soon learn that the devil is in the details .  for example , ( and we've seen this several times in the trailers ) , he is granted his wish , but finds out that he's a columbian drug lord and that allison , while married to him , has her eyes on someone else .  apparently , the devil is just as eager to skew his fantasies as she is to possess his soul .  his other wishes also end up with some strange but funny twist that short-circuits his new life .  soon , elliot wishes that he had never made that deal .  given the mischievous nature of the devil , " bedazzled " has many amusing moments .  a lot of the credit goes to fraser who turns in a great comic performance .  he ably assumes various personas .  his funniest segment is when he wishes that he could be the most sensitive man in the world .  allison becomes so frustrated with him that she practically urges him to take advantage of her .  hurley also heightens the humor quotient , especially in the transitional scenes when fraser waits to start his next wish after bailing out of the previous one .  it's clear that she's having a good time with it all .  yet , while the filmmakers work hard at creating funny scenes , they conspicuously avoid developing the allegorical underpinnings between good and evil that could have added more heft to this story .  but that would be playing with fire .  what they've got works , so you can easily accept it for the pleasant little comedy that it is . 
neg@ if the 70's nostalgia didn't make you feel old , the 80's nostalgia is bound to .  one of the latter set , " the wedding singer , " seems to be written by someone who did not experience the 1980's directly but only read about them in an article in parade magazine .  the wacky fashions are here .   .   .  and the music .   .   .  and references aplenty to celebrities and signs of the times , but it all seems tediously-and too obviously-inserted for the didn't-we-dress-funny-back-then chuckle .  the plot is standard romantic comedy with nothing original : robbie ( adam sandler ) is a wedding singer ; julia ( drew barrymore ) waits tables at weddings .  both are engaged ; however , robbie's fiance ( angela featherstone ) dumps him at the altar , and julia's fiance ( matthew glave ) is a skirt-chasing speculator in junk bonds .  robbie and julia go through the expected ups-and-downs as they realize they were meant to be together .  i'll fess up-i've never found adam sandler funny .  whatever his appeal is , i've missed it .   ( other comedians i don't get include pauly shore and pee wee herman-make your own judgments ) .  the stupidity and artificiality of the whole project is summarized in a cameo by billy idol as himself .  idol looks like hell , and the ravages of his lifestyle are barely concealed by thick makeup .  he's mocked by a photo of his younger self on a rolling stone cover in the same scene .  we're not supposed to notice that , and we're not supposed to notice how silly it is that billy idol suddenly appears to play fairy godmother to robbie .  other cameos , by steve buscemi and jon lovitz , provide the only real laughs in the movie .  lovitz is especially good , playing a rival wedding singer plotting with the mania of a bond villain to take advantage of robbie's post-break-up depression . 
pos@ tbwp is probably the single most profitable film ever .  not surprising , considering its tiny us$100 , 000 budget , to date it has earned in excess of us$130 million .  that's a shocking 100 times profit !  rumours have it that a smart internet `marketing' ploy was so successful in gaining cult-like fanatics , by word of mouth coupled with strings of excellent reviews , the film just exploded in the box-office , raking in millions on its opening weekend .  shot in 16mm and video ( i suspect . ) , the film chronicles the forays of 3 students who go in search for the legendary blair witch .  audiences are put in the first-person perspective in the entire mis-adventure , often wobbly and blurry at times , it takes a bit of getting used to in the beginning .  this is supposed to be the material they discovered in the woods where the 3 disappeared ; edited and put onto the screen for the benefit of our audiences .  tbwp is simply smart .  filmed to look as if it was really a stock-shoot by a bunch of students in search of the blair witch as a school project , one may suspect ( like yours truly ) that its simply a lazy but smart approach to film-making .  simply amazing in that respect , i must say .  talk about impact , oh yes , tbwp does have quite a bit , in fact most audience will find it deeply disturbing .  i did , especially the last bit but i'm not revealing more .  you have to see it for yourself .  i can't help but feel a tad cheated after knowing how commercially successful this film has become .  could it be that finally , an indie-film has unwittingly found a formula for commercial appeal ?  or was it all simply a ploy by the big players right from the beginning ?  well , i guess the fact stays ; tbwp is highly original , clever and will most definitely leave most with something dreadful to talk and think about for weeks prior to watching this film .  no gore , no special effects , i just can't get over how terribly smart this film is ! 
neg@ i don't expect much from eddie murphy these days .  for the past four years , the gods of cinema--or the expansive payrolls of studio conglomerates--have allowed him to make one bad movie after another .  such films as metro , doctor dolittle , holy man , life , and bowfinger have reduced a once great comedic persona to a living and breathing washed-up hack performing as a studio puppet for 20th century fox and universal pictures .  the biggest shame to fall on his shoulders is his newest film , nutty professor ii : the klumps .  the klumps once again revisits the life of sherman klump , an overweight university science professor looking for love in all the wrong places .  sherman has just invented a new " youth drink " that enables man or beast to become younger for a short period of time .  janet jackson is the love interest who chooses the lovable sherman for a soul mate rather than excel at her career as a university professor ( and for the most ridiculous reasons ) .  with love on his mind , sherman is determined to rid himself of his alter ego , buddy love from the first professor , who still resides with vigor inside his psyche and causes sherman to act like a bad imitation of vince vaughn from swingers .  with some convoluted mumbo-jumbo about dna extraction , sherman extracts the " buddy love " link in his dna and smartly deposits buddy into a handy-dandy lab beaker .  but one night , the beaker is knocked over and buddy love is regenerated . . .  because every movie like this needs an unnecessary villain to thwart the good guy .  then the klump family , all played by eddie murphy , step in for some comedic relief involving old people having sex , flabby breasts , a slew of fart and dick jokes , and enough fat people jokes that i lost count after the first thirty minutes .  and did i mention the part where larry miller gets anally raped by an overgrown hamster ?  the movie finally dissolves into a really bad hallmark family special about realizing who you are and what you can be in this world -- with enough soft lighting and people on the verge of tears in every scene .  pure and simple , the klumps is a failure .  its script was handled by not one but five screenwriters , and it really shows during the awkward transitions between scenes .  any sense of story and plot were lost in the rewrite process .  it's more discerning to learn that chris weitz and paul weitz , the team behind one of the funniest films of the last decade , american pie , have their names stamped to this trash .  hey guys - quick note - keep this movie off of your resumes .  the characterization of sherman's family , the klumps , is one of the most ignorant stereotypes of a black family i have ever seen in cinema .  everyone member of the family is a large person who wipes the bins clean at a local buffet restaurant like pigs at a trough .  the grandma is an oversexed fiend who constantly talks of ways to pleasure her man and her sagging breasts .  the father is gruff , is fired from a blue-collar job , is sexually inadequate , and cannot communicate with his family about his feelings .  the mother is ignorant of all the negativity around her and seems to hold no opinion about anything or anyone .  the brother is silent and brooding and resembles the ice cube gangster character from boyz in the hood .  sherman himself is terribly insecure and never conveys anything for the audience to become attached to .  but the main problem with the film is its inability to create any type of convincing conversational or situational comedy .  the family scenes from the first nutty professor worked so well because their conversations were short and direct .  and you got the feeling that these crass people couldn't act like this all the time .  the sequel does the reverse and drives the negatives of the klumps right in to the hilt , making the first five minutes of their interaction enjoyable and the last 55 or so unbearable and pathetic .  after a while , their conversations just become a barrage of frustrated anger tinged with indecency and overworked premises that end up drawing energy away from any type of empathy one might feel for the central themes of the story .  its also a damn shame that the makeup magic of rick baker -- who worked on the original nutty professor and won an academy award for his work on an american werewolf in london -- and amazing digital special effects that enabled murphy to interact with himself in such beautiful motions are built around such a lame story line .  even the best effects can't seem to save the most pathetic of movies these days .  now that i think about it , the worst thing about this film has to be all the money that it will make .  people will be lined up around the block for it .  the studios will concoct the a sequel for release in the summer of 2002 .  eddie murphy will be signed up to take not just one role or five roles , but he'll play every character in the movie .  i just can't wait to see eddie murphy in a love scene with himself . 
pos@ every now and then a movie comes along from a suspect studio , with every indication that it will be a stinker , and to everybody's surprise ( perhaps even the studio ) the film becomes a critical darling .  mtv films' _election , a high school comedy starring matthew broderick and reese witherspoon , is a current example .  did anybody know this film existed a week before it opened ?  the plot is deceptively simple .  george washington carver high school is having student elections .  tracy flick ( reese witherspoon ) is an over-achiever with her hand raised at nearly every question , way , way , high .  mr . " m " ( matthew broderick ) , sick of the megalomaniac student , encourages paul , a popular-but-slow jock to run .  and paul's nihilistic sister jumps in the race as well , for personal reasons .  the dark side of such sleeper success is that , because expectations were so low going in , the fact that this was quality stuff made the reviews even more enthusiastic than they have any right to be .  you can't help going in with the baggage of glowing reviews , which is in contrast to the negative baggage that the reviewers were likely to have .  _election , a good film , does not live up to its hype .  what makes _election_ so disappointing is that it contains significant plot details lifted directly from _rushmore_ , released a few months earlier .  the similarities are staggering :  tracy flick ( _election_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play .  max fischer ( _rushmore_ ) is the president of an extraordinary number of clubs , and is involved with the school play .  the most significant tension of _election_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student .  the most significant tension of _rushmore_ is the potential relationship between a teacher and his student .  tracy flick is from a single parent home , which has contributed to her drive .  max fischer is from a single parent home , which has contributed to his drive .  the male bumbling adult in _election_ ( matthew broderick ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined .  he even gets a bee sting .  the male bumbling adult in _rushmore_ ( bill murray ) pursues an extramarital affair , gets caught , and his whole life is ruined .  he gets several bee stings .  and so on .  what happened ?  how is it that an individual screenplay ( _rushmore_ ) and a novel ( _election_ ) contain so many significant plot points , and yet both films were probably not even aware of each other , made from two different studios , from a genre ( the high school geeks revenge movie ) that hadn't been fully formed yet ?  even so , the strengths of _election_ rely upon its fantastic performances from broderick , witherspoon , and newcomer jessica campbell , as paul's anti-social sister , tammy .  broderick here is playing the mr . rooney role from _ferris bueller_ , and he seems to be having the most fun he's had since then .  witherspoon is a revelation .  it's early in the year , it's a comedy , and teenagers have little clout , but for my money , witherspoon deserves an oscar nomination .  and once campbell's character gets going , like in her fantastic speech in the gymnasium , then you're won over .  one thing that's been bothering me since i've seen it .  there is an extraordinary amount of sexuality in this film .  i suppose that , coming from mtv films , i should expect no less . . .  but the film starts off light and airy , like a sitcom .  as the screws tighten , and the tensions mount , alexander payne decides to add elements that , frankly , distract from the story .  it is bad enough that mr . m doesn't like tracy's determination to win at all costs , but did they have to throw in the student/teacher relationship ?  even so , there's no logical reason why mr . m has an affair when he does .  there's a lot to like in _election_ , but the plot similarities to _rushmore_ , and the tonal nosedive it takes as it gets explicitly sex-driven , mark this as a disappointment . 
neg@ the tagline for this film is : " some houses are just born bad " .  so i didn't expect too much from this .  but i had preserved a little spark of ope as i entered the theatre .  i thought : liam neeson , cathrine zeta jones and jan de bont .  i thought , mabe it will be fun ?  and in fact the beginning was rather intriguing .  but by the end of it i thought : why liam neeson and cathrine zeta jones , jan de bont ? .  these great actors are basically helpless with this muddled mess that defies any rationality .  here is the story : in the monstrously over-decorated mansion known as hill house , visitors are tricked by an unknown doctor ( liam neeson ) into being guinea pigs in a fright experiment under the guise of an insomnia investigation .  among them is a sophisticated bisexual ( cathrine zeta jones ) , a cynical dope ( owen wilson ) and a gentle and emotional lady ( lily taylor ) .  actually , the doctor is researching the " primordial fear reaction " and intends to plant disturbing ideas in his subjects and watch !  what happens .  but he gets unexpected help from the house itself .  it rumbles , hums and belches forth remarkable sights .  portals become veiny stained-glass eyeballs .  a fireplace guarded by stone lions gapes like a sinister mouth .  filmy cherubic spirits take shape under sheets and billowy curtains .  but the computerized spooketeria rarely feels real , placing an emotional wall between audience and screen .  the second half of the film is basically about the main heroine running back and forth from the sinister lamps and evil furniture .  is that exciting or what ?  the worst thing about it is that it didn't have to be bad .  it's based on a great book , ``the haunting of hill house , '' by shirley jackson .  a 1963 adaptation of the book was scary and intelligent .  it played with the greatest fears of our sub conscience .   " the blair witch project " , that cost less than an old car , managed to shock and terrify the audiences from their senses .  and with a $70 mill .  budget , de bont and screenwriter david self make hash out of a perfectly lovely piece of terror .  de !  bont has a style of filmmaking so out of line with the material that it is , in itself , frightening .  he is the master of the extravagant special effect and the big visual adrenaline rush .  but why give him a more serious material ?  in the end " haunting " will only haunt its fledgling studio ( dream works skg ) and de bont's career as a director .  yet it wouldn't be fair to say that everything is bad .  the effects are truly impressive and the house is wonderfully decorated -- beautiful , mysterious , magical and spooky .  but this is where the good things end .  the music is blaring , the floors moving , the ceiling morphing and the pictures on the walls screaming -- and all of this , every second , every moment of screen time , is absolutely without life .  it's nothing more than a special effects-extravaganza ; visually impressive , but intellectually hollow thriller that simply doesn't engage .  at first you do not know what's going on .  is this part of the experiment ?  are these hallucinations ?  projections of the subconscience ?  paranoia ?  but in the end it shows out that this is actually happening .  the house is actually possessed .  it is at that point when all your hopes for a good entertainment disappears out of the window .  for ever , i sat in anticipation for a decent climax and that's what i got ?  i believe hichock once said that " it's !  better to wait for a climax , than to see one " .  this may be true , and it might actually work , but there is only one problem -- jan de bont is not hichock and the things that he shows are not scary , only stupid .  they are impossible to take seriously .  any paralells that you might have heard before , linking this picture to kubrick's " the shining " , are absolutely baseless .   " shining " had class , style , story , acting , but most of all talent and originality .   " haunting " has only special effects and art direction to boast of .  and those elements alone are not enough to make it a good film .  casting good actors for small , pale parts only makes things worse .  but i guess that no matter what i or other critics say or write , most of you will see this film anyway , even if the tagline would say : " some films are just born stupid " . 
pos@ the word 'rest' in the title should be stressed since this is a movie that lacks any action scenes at all .  what does takes place is more based on character development .  the film starts right in the middle of the lives of four people : nick , beth , carol and sid .  what they have done earlier is for the most part only hinted at .  nick and beth have a relationship and have decided to move from enfield , arizona to butte , montana .   ( and i who thought that butte was pronounced slightly different . . . )  carol is nick's ex-girlfriend and beth's best friend , sid is a joint-smoking painter that comes to repaint their house before the new tenants move in .  obviously based on a stage play , the problem with the movie is that there's a lot of things left out .  it's not obvious that nick and beth are in love with each other , the reason why nick was fired from his job isn't mentioned .  and why nick suddenly decide to go visit his parents remain a mystery , when he hasn't seen them for many years .  set in a small ( fictional ? )  town in arizona was a good move , since this makes the film focus on the four characters and not on their surroundings .  the name of the city is not important , this could take place anywhere with four young people in a house discussing life and the future .  particularly impressive is bridget fonda as beth who end up in bed with sid when her fiance nick leaves her .  not an actress that i have found interesting earlier or seen many pictures with , but i'll keep an eye on her in the future .  interesting trivia : this was rated r in the us but rated 'barntill ? ten' in sweden wich means that anyone at any age can see it . 
neg@ seen at : amc old pasadena 8 , pasadena , ca ( in sdds )  paul verhoeven's last movie , showgirls , had a bad script , bad acting , and a " plot " ( i use the word in its loosest possible sense ) that served only to allow lots of sex and nudity .  it stank .  starship troopers has a bad script , bad acting , and a " plot " that serves only to allow lots of violence and gore .  it stinks .  nobody will watch this movie for the plot , but here's a brief synopsis anyway .  some friends straight out of high school sign up for the federal reserve ( armed forces ) at a time when evil bugs from the planet klendathu are sending meteors towards earth from the other side of the galaxy .  after one slips through the defences and destroys buenos aires ( the home city of the main characters ) , war is declared .  this involves sending the grunts , who include johnny rico ( van dien ) and dizzy ( meyer ) , down to the surface of the bugs' planet .  much carnage ensues .  the troops are withdrawn and sent to another planet to answer a distress call .  more carnage ensues .  after being rescued , their plans are changed to capture a " brain bug " which is believed to be controlling the aliens' battle plans ( look , i didn't write this , ok ? ) .  yet more carnage ensues .  get the picture ?  interspersed throughout all this are brief " ads " from the federal network , which present the picture of a neo-fascist state , much like in verhoeven's robocop .  there are many problems with starship troopers .  the plot , where one exists to drive the movie onwards , is silly .  harris ( star of tv's doogie howser , md ) is presented with a psychic ability to talk to his ferret early on in the movie , apparently so we will accept his ability to mind-meld with a " brain bug " later on .  in addition , the first thirty minutes of the movie ( until the characters sign up for service ) drag on like a bad episode of beverly hills , 90210 .  the characters are one-dimensional , so much so , that when dizzy is killed , she says it's ok because she got to sleep with rico .  i had hoped that verhoeven's use of a no-name cast would allow him to kill off several of the lead characters to surprise the audience , but such an idea appears to have escaped him .  the dialogue is embarassing and isn't helped by the frequently terrible delivery ( i almost burst out laughing when harris delivered his speech about the need to sacrifice a few hundred people for the good of the species ) .  finally , the fake " ads " become a nuisance .  although they evoke the propaganda of the wwii-era movietone reels ( as presumably they are meant to ) , their complete lack of subtlety blunts their effect .  some people will say all of that's irrelevant -- the movie hinges on the battle scenes .  so what about those battle scenes ?  well , i admit the effects are good -- the bugs move about quite convincingly , especially when they have been deprived of a few of their limbs .  and people have their brains blown out , their limbs cut off , and their bodies ripped in two in quite impressive ways .  but this is my problem .  the entertainment value of the film rests almost entirely on its graphic portrayal of gore , and its continous attempt to gross us out ( starting early on when richards' character vomits on-screen ) .  verhoeven appears to be trying to make a movie employing the elements that made a robocop a success , but fails spectacularly .  while robocop had a message about the importance of being human , and gave the bad guys some motivation , starship troopers lacks even these simple features .  when the brain bug sucks out a character's brain near the end of the film , it's merely an analogy for what the film has done to us .  this film is full of graphic violence and is not suitable for children under 16 . 
pos@ scream 2 , like its predecessor , is a genre-crossing film .  it is about 50% horror film and 50% murder mystery .  the mix worked very well last time and it continues to entertain this time .  scream was also known for its self-referential tone .  many inside jokes were made in reference to horror movies and wes craven .  again , scream 2 follows suit with characters saying such things as " sequels suck " and " the entire horror genre was destroyed by sequels . "  scream 2's story is very similar to it's predecessor's .  sidney ( neve campbell ) , having survived the killing spree in scream , is now in college .  gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a book about the murders and that book is now being released as a feature film , called stab ( which for all practical purposes is the real-world movie scream ) .  at the premiere of stab , two students from sidney's college are stabbed to death , and a new story begins .  the press descends on sidney and her college to get the scoop on this sequel killer .  they want to know all about the links between stab , sidney , and the recent murders .  the most complex self-reference i saw ( this should be an olympic event ) was the scene where gale weathers was asking questions at a press conference .  the rest of the press was watching and videotaping weathers .  the other survivors from scream were watching and videotaping the press .  the audience was watching the whole , filmed scene .   ( whew . )  the movie is packed with layers and self-references that make it a pleasure to watch .  even better would be to watch a double feature of scream and scream 2 . that's not to say that these references necessarily make scream 2 a deep , or even a good movie .  the just add to the fun of watching it .  i recommend it for other reasons as well .  what i liked best about the horror aspect of the movie is that the monster is not supernatural .  no werewolf or ghost or psycho with superhuman strength is responsible .  it is a person in a mask and a robe , his only advantage the fear he strikes into his victims .  no extraordinary leap of faith is needed to believe in the killer .  the down side is that if you are frightened by horror movies , you have less grounds to say " it's just a movie . "  the whodunit aspect of the movie is not that great by itself - gale weathers and deputy dewey ( david arquette , also from the original ) track down a killer .  they are likeable , but not outstanding .  but in combination with the horror aspect , the whodunit is a perfect counterpoint .  it was exactly a year ago today that i wrote the review for scream .  the internet movie database says that scream 3 is in the works , so i wonder if i'll be doing the same thing on january 1 , 1999 .  if craven and screenwriter kevin williamson are able to keep the quality high , i'll be happy to mark my calendar . 
neg@ for a film touted as exploring relationships and black sexuality , trois is surprisingly tame .  despite it's lurid subject matter and it's passing nod to fatal attraction , it moves along with flat , uninspired dialogue as it sets up a surprising climax that tries mightily to overthrow the considerable dead weight of the rest of the film .  freshly moved to atlanta , jermaine ( dourdan ) and his wife , jasmine ( moore ) , have the trappings of a perfect life .  they have a beautiful house in suburbia .  jermaine is a lawyer on the fast track at his firm .  jasmine is his supportive wife , who is finishing up her college degree .  in an opening montage via a home video of the pair , we see the unremarkable story of their marriage and early marital triumphs .  this is a couple that has it all .  into this eden slithers the lure of lust .  despite his outward appearance , jermaine reveals himself as selfish and covetous of his wife more as a possession than a person .  a glimmer of his true nature peeks out during an early sex scene with his wife as he goes about his business , oblivious to jasmine's concerns .  we also find that he has been relentlessly asking jasmine to participate in a menage- a-trois , much to jasmine's dismay .  as jermaine puts it , " don't you want to be sexually free ? "  jermaine shares his desire with co-worker terrence ( smith ) , who obligingly sets jermaine up with a woman who might be interested in just such an encounter .  the woman , jade ( palmer ) is a direct counterpoint to jasmine .  jade , at one point was a college student , too .  unlike jasmine , she found herself pregnant , dropped out of school and now struggles to make ends meet .  to further reinforce their differences , it's revealed that jade is involved in a custody battle over her son .  inevitably , through liquor and a touch of duplicity on jermaine's part , the forbidden act is consummated .  the aftermath of the encounter sidesteps into fatal attraction territory as acts of violence are perpetrated upon jermaine's property with the hint that the violence may escalate .  by this point , trois shows itself to be a soap opera without the requisite melodrama : a fatal attraction without the social significance .  the exploration of relationships is strictly superficial and stereotypical .  jermaine comes off as insincere , sexually driven and selfish .  jasmine is bland and subservient .  jade comes off a bit sympathetically , but that is negated by her moral bankruptcy .  yet another tale of a sexually aggressive " dog " of a man who imposes his will upon his accommodating , innocent mate .  the last 10 minutes will undoubtly throw you a curve , but by this point , will you even care ?  if the rest of the movie was as dynamic as the ending , perhaps there could have been some freshness to it .  as it stands , trois is pretty standard fare . 
pos@ in `enemy at the gates' , jude law is a gifted russian sniper made hero by a political officer named danilov ( joseph fiennes ) who uses him in a propaganda newspaper to raise the hopes of the soldiers and people of stalingrad .  it's world war ii , and the russian-german standoff in town could determine the outcome of things for the motherland .  law's vassili is the russian's top pawn to victory .  lots of war stuff happens .  an older , german version of jude's character played by ed harris shows up halfway into the proceedings .  he's equally talented , and the two men play a cat and mouse game trying to kill each other .  they constantly switch roles , as the war fades far into the background .  the cast also includes the terrific rachel weisz as a love interest for both vassili and danilov  the set-up is decent , and so are the production values .  boasting a wide range of grimy locales , greasy hair , and tattered costumes , the art direction prospers .  the actors , however , suffer the problem matt damon had in `saving private ryan' .  either their eyes , teeth , skin , or a combination of other features looked too white and clean .  with dirt and blood all around , the blinding teeth or bright eyes of these actors divert attention from the action .  that said , the players are mostly good in their roles , although i don't think ed harris was really trying .  maybe he realized his role struck a difficult chord in one-notedom .  while the film is technically about snipers , there are far too many predictable sniping scenes .  director jean-jacques annaud expects us to view each tense situation with jude and some cohort in a tight spot as edgy and exciting , but after about the sixth time , in which we realize that jude is not going to die , it's relatively pointless .  we get that he's talented , okay , let's move on .  that's the problem with `enemy at the gates' ; it just doesn't know when to stop .  witness the wasted seventeen minutes that could have been spent elsewhere .  reestablishing his title as the most beautiful ( and often talented ) man on film , jude law carries the movie .  without him , this costly production would have gone into the ground .  the story and acting are of good quality , but there's never a sense of authenticity or reality .  something about this war movie is undeniably modern , and it loses its feeling .  strange enough , the screenplay is based on the true story of a real russian sniper . 
neg@ 8mm is not going to enlighten your day .  it's a dark , grimy and disturbing portrait of underworld snuff films and filled with excessive violence .  not only do you need the stomach to make it through this bloated mess , you'll require a lot of patience as well .  nicolas cage seems to be doing quite a bit of overacting as of late .  he wore a bizarre get-up and did a lot of yelling in the terminally awful snake eyes , and here he attempts a performance that can relate to someone completely losing their grip on reality .  cage plays private investigator tom welles , praised for his secrecy and reliability .  at home , welles is a family man , with a wife ( catherine keener ) and a small daughter to take care of .  his new assignment is a bizarre one : the wife of a formally deceased millionaire has hired him to solve a mystery regarding a film found in her husband's safe .  the film appears to be some kind of cheap pornography involving a teenage girl and a masked man , until the girl is brutally murdered .  or so it seems .  welles , of course , begins to burrow deeper and deeper to uncover the truth .  and the more he becomes involved in this disturbing case , the more he gets in over his head .  he hires an adult book store clerk named max california ( joaquin phoenix ) to be his guide through the ugly underworld of pornography .  max knows what welles is getting himself into , and explains , `you dance with the devil , the devil don't change .  the devil changes you . '  these turn out to be very wise words .  8mm has a premise that begs for a better execution .  the set-up is slick and well played , as cage uncovers the identity of the girl and travels to hollywood to locate her .  this is where everything goes awry .  although director joel schumacher succeeds in frightening us with his grotesque portrait of the `real world' , he forgot to inject any interest or excitement to the formula .  everything about the movie becomes dull and lifeless , repelling the viewer like the effect of bug spray to insects .  although it had enormous potential , the third act of 8mm is a total bust , leaving intrigued audiences in a baffling state of extreme disappointment as the proceedings spiral out of control .  cage is the film's sole flame of energy .  his performance is actually believable , but soon the director's demands start to weigh heavily on his shoulder and he begins stumbling along in desperation .  still , you've got to give him credit for holding this project together as long as he did , for that is no easy feat when you consider the problems at hand .  welles' trail soon leads him to a bizarre filmmaker ( played convincingly by peter stormare ) who is notorious for the hardest-hitting snuff films in the industry .  this is where cage goes over the edge into a serial killer-like phase , in which he must take revenge on all those who murdered the innocent girl in the film .  he tracks down the masked man responsible for the killing ( chris bauer ) , and they have a bloody brawl in the local cemetery , a fight sequence that would look more at home in a schwarzenegger movie .  written by andrew kevin walker , 8mm dissipates into a poor man's seven , with all the violence but little of the effectiveness that made the latter such a chilling masterpiece .  furthermore , what has become of joel schumacher ?  the director has recently experienced a major drought , slumming in the depths of dismal flop after flop ( batman and robin , anyone ? ) .  this putrid thriller is certainly not going to revive his career , so perhaps schumacher should start exploring his lighter side . 
pos@ airplane ! is considered among many to be the epitome of satire film-making .  after all , it's brought to us by one of the best known satire writing/directing teams .  even if most people don't recognize the names behind the films , they are bound to recognize the titles : airplane ! , top secret , the naked gun , and hot shots to name a few .  but although the zucker/abrahams/zucker team was first introduced with the kentucky fried movie in 1977 , airplane !  remains the true cornerstone of their work , and their directorial debuts .  in the seventies , disaster films seemed to be at an all time high .  films like earthquake , the towering inferno , and the poseidon adventure were big hits .  there was also a series about the disasters that can arise when traveling by plane - a series that spanned the entire decade .  and so , in 1980 , we were introduced to a new airplane disaster film .  this time the disaster had nothing to do with a maniacal hijacker or crashing into the ocean .   .   .  it had to do with bad fish .  airplane ! is the story of ted striker ( robert hays ) - an ex-fighter-pilot who has never gotten over the fact that a decision he had to make in the midst of war led to the death of six , er , seven comrades .  unable to stop living in the past , ted's world fell apart .  he spent his time moving from city to city without ever having a stable job , and eventually , as we begin this film , is getting dumped by his lover , flight attendant elaine dickinson ( julie hagerty ) .  in a desperate attempt not to lose her , ted buys a ticket for the same flight elaine is working .  unfortunately , she is unsympathetic and even criticizes ted for following her , which leaves him wallowing in self-pity .  in the midst of it all , something happens .  someone gets sick .  then another .  then another .  soon , the whole plane is full of deathly-ill chicago-bound people .   .   .  and when the pilots get sick ( played by peter graves , kareem abdul-jabbar , and frank ashmore ) , who will save the day ?   ( gee , i wonder )  of course the main draw here is the non-stop " whiz-bang " comedy , with a hefty dose of both visual and spoken gags .  although i had seen this movie a few times before , i was still laughing thru the entire thing .  the most fun character by far is the doctor , played by leslie nielsen .  he's a dry , subtle , sterotypically straight-faced doctor that ends up saying some of the funniest lines of the film .  in a film like this , you're not really expecting an elaborate production , so one can't complain about the amateurish quality .  what you can complain about is the absolutely annoying johnny , played by stephen stucker .  this character is pointless , nauseating , and very unfunny .  i don't know why he was put in there , and i don't think anybody will find a good excuse .  and when the film nears an end , it slows down quite a bit , almost getting old .  you gotta give it to a movie that only runs 88 minutes and can feel two hours long .  aside from that , airplane !  is really a top-notch spoof that will likely forever be known as a spoof classic .  it would be a good choice to pop in the vcr with a group of friends , especially if they haven't seen it .  and if they ask what the plot is , just tell 'em " it's a synopsis of the basic storyline of the film , but that's not important right now . "  if you've seen the film , you'll understand ; - ) 
neg@ this is my first review that i post to this newsgroup , and i kind of feel like i have to say something negative about this film .  no one else seems to care that it takes certain liberties that should not be taken with a historical story .  however , even if one thinks of it as fiction , " the prince of egypt " remains shallow .  but i'll begin from the beginning .  the biggest difference between the original , biblical story and this version is that moses has some semblance of divinity in the bible , whereas the animated version gives the impression of a reluctant hero .  maybe it's just me , but if i knew i had god on my side , i'd have a little bit more confidence .  there are other differences as well , such as a lack of important female characters and the passing over of the original pharoah's death like it's nothing but a thing .  most of all , though , the story's focus has shifted .  rather than being a story about father-son , man-ethnicity , man-god , " the prince of egypt " is almost solely about the brother-brother relationship between rameses and moses .  i was originally excited about this story element until i saw the movie , where it came off as maudlin .  rameses and moses squabble like children and then , in the interests of peace , moses saves rameses' butt , even though moses was the one who started it . . .   * yawn * i didn't care anymore by the time moses ran off for murdering an overseer ( which , of course , never happened in the original story - moses was exiled ) .  but enough about the differences .  let's talk about the movie itself .  it features a moses who , in the interests of making the character more human , lacks any divinity whatsoever , which isn't convincing at all to anyone who knows who god is .  it features a cookie-cutter " i-wanna-please-dada " rameses , who at least is given dignity by the voicework of ralph fiennes ( from schindler's list , among other things ) .  the film also features an extremely annoying character by way of the " new-improved " miriam , voiced by the ever-antsy sandra bullock , even though the most irritating thing about her is her tendency to burst into song for no apparent reason ( here bullock is replaced by a singing voice ) .  speaking of which , it contains * very * annoying music .  it contains shallow writing .  it features extraordinary animation , which is one good thing i can say about this film .  most of all , it contains an attempt to commercialize , homogenize , and mass-market a story about a manifestation of god .  i am not christian , but i got the impression of blasphemy .  the writers and producers took a butcher knife and chop-chopped into the story . 
pos@ with more and more television shows having gay characters , and even the infamous " ellen " sitcom being centered on the life of a lesbian , the movie industry too seems to be gaining more and more homosexual based plot lines .  the birdcage was critically acclaimed , as was this years chasing amy .  then along came in & out , and all three of these films are on my top ten list for the years in which they were released .  it's also noticeable that this " alternative lifestyle " becomes less and less taboo as the years go by , and it seems that using comedy as a medium is proving a worthwhile effort .  while it's a very serious issue to many , it is the comedies that people are flocking to see and that are gaining notoriety .  but the way we're using comedy to present homosexuality is also changing quite dramatically .  while the gay community was once very stereotyped and used to laugh * at * , it is more and more becoming something we laugh * with * , and when a movie like in & out comes along , it is something that both heterosexuals and homosexuals should be able to thoroughly enjoy .  it doesn't poke fun at the lifestyle , it simply uses it to all it's comedic capacity , just as love , sex , marriage , birth , death , and anything else has been .  the idea for in & out was born the day tom hanks won his oscar for portraying an aids-afflicted gay man in philadelphia .  if you remember , during his acceptance speech , hanks gave a highly emotional tribute to the gay community , and even sighted a former gay teacher of his as a major inspiration in his life .  it's a serious and touchy subject , but producer scott rudin viewed it as the setting for a potentially hilarious comedy , and pitched it to screenwriter paul rudnick .  it's true that if this same film had been written by a heterosexual , it may have been more controversial , but because it was written by an openly gay writer , the prerogative was set .  kevin kline , who only seems to become more and more acclaimed , stars as howard brackett , a high school english teacher in the small , picturesque town of greenleaf , indiana .  after a three-year engagement to fellow teacher emily montgomery ( joan cusack ) , a wedding date has been set , and the hubbub surrounding it is almost as big as that surrounding another huge story - greenleaf high graduate cameron drake ( matt dillon ) is up for a best actor oscar .  the small town eagerly awaits both events , and both seem quite astronomical , but little does anyone know how much one will affect the other .  when cameron drake is announced the winner , the excitement is heightened as he pays tribute to his high school english teacher , mr . brackett .  everyone is cheering back in greenleaf - that is until cameron tacks on those three calamitous words , " and he's gay . "  the town becomes silent as the entire population joins in a simultaneous jaw drop .  the thing is , nobody , including howard , can understand how cameron came to that conclusion , and such wild and unexpected news can only wreak havoc in such a conservative american haven such as greenleaf .  naturally the questions pour from howard's fiancee , parents ( debbie reynolds & wilford brimley ) , students , and the high school's principal , tom halliwell ( bob newhart ) , and the evidence starts to become more and more obvious : howard is clean , neat , honest , sincere , a romantic , and perhaps the most incriminating fact , he loves barbara streisand .  the frenzy isn't helped any when camera crews from every conceivable news magazine and " entertainment tonight " wannabe show up at greenleaf high the very next morning .  one particular reporter is peter malloy ( tom selleck ) of " inside entertainment " , who unlike the collage of other reporters , wants to spend a whole week in the life of howard brackett , including coverage of his wedding .  the intrusion is all but welcome by howard , who is going more and more out of his mind with each passing minute .  it seems that no matter where he turns , a camera is being shoved in his face and questions regarding homosexuality are being tossed to him like frisbees .  the dominoes begin to tumble as howard's closest friends begin acting different and principal halliwell hints at a possible termination of employment should howard indeed be gay .  it all sounds very devastating , and it would be if it weren't presented with near-perfection by one of this year's most delightful ensemble casts .  kline seems only to improve with age , and he is downright perfect here .  the great thing about this film is that every single character has a moment to shine , and they use it wonderfully .  every single actor turns in one of their best performances ever .  dillon has never been so likeable , cusack has never seemed so perfect for a role , and brimley , reynolds , and newhart all provide huge laughs when they're up to bat .  rudnick's script is heavily laced with wit and humor , and you'll likely find yourself laughing out loud for a solid ninety minutes .  while in & out doesn't carry enough to give it four stars , it remains one of the best done films of the year , all-around .  the script is exuberant , the actors are absolutely top- notch , and we're allowed just the perfect blend of heart-tugging so as not to bog down the laughs .  it remains a solid comedy throughout its entirety , yet we're still allowed a sappily touching ending .  despite it's subject matter , and one scene that comes almost too close for comfort on explaining gay sex , this is a movie that everyone could , and should , enjoy .  frank oz , best known as a voice talent for muppets , directs this film quite delightfully , using all the potential rudnick's script has to offer , which turns out to be quite a bit .  check this one out .  you'll have a gay old time . 
neg@  " gordy " is not a movie , it is a 90-minute-long " sesame street " skit , and a very bad one at that .  this movie is so stupid and dumb that it's depressing to think that some hollywood executives actually gave this the green light , and even more surprising is the fact that this is a disney movie .  i'm sure children are the target audience of this movie , but only kids under the age of five may be able to tolerate it .  it is the story of a farm a piglet named gordy ( voiced by garms ) , whose family has been taken away to " up north , " which we know means death .  of course we can hear the animals talk to each other , and they actually went to the trouble of attempting to sync the voices with their mouths but it comes out terrible .  actually , it's almost funny in a way .  the only remotely interesting and likable character soon appears , a little girl named jinnie sue macallister ( young ) who sees gordy on the back of a truck and essentially steals him .  jinnie is a country singer and the film goes off on a huge tangent to show her little concert and the people dancing to it .  what is the point of this ?  maybe she is one of the producer's relatives and they wanted to show her on camera to promote her or something .  we then cut to a huge social gathering and drop in on another young kid named hank royce ( roescher ) who is sad because his divorced mother is dating .  he leaves the party and meets jinnie sue , but he accidentally falls in a pool ( probably because he was sitting on the diving board with a $200 suit on - nah , didn't see that one coming ! ) ,  starts to drown , and is miraculously saved as gordy pushes an inflatable float over to him and saves him .  if this had not been insanely stupid already the story quickly changes when jinnie gives gordy to hank who then ends up becoming the ceo of a food processing corporation when hank's grandfather , the original ceo , dies and leaves his fortune to hank . . .  and gordy !  of course there must be a villain , but even this villain ( donadio as sipes ) isn't that evil .  he never raises his voice or becomes angry , and of course he has the typical idiot goons kidnap gordy but this is just so beyond stupid and cartoony we are constantly two steps ahead of the story .  it's hard to tell whether the overall corniness and cheesiness to the movie is intentional because it is a family film , or if the filmmaker's are just this untalented and stupid .  at times " gordy " is tolerable to watch , thus earning it one star and not the dreaded " z- . "  but it's just so unbelievably boring , cliche , dumb , unfunny , corny , and just plain bad it may scare children , it certainly disturbed me .   ( 4/21/96 ) ( 1/29/97 ) ( 6/13/97 ) [see also : " babe " ] 
pos@ an astonishingly difficult movie to watch , the last temptation of = christ may be scorsese's most important film , and yet his most = impossibly abstract as well .  scorsese presents the life of jesus = christ , through nikos kazantzakis' novel , which details the life of = christ from approximately 20 until the day of crucifixtion .  jesus of = nazareth ( dafoe ) is a carpenter , who opens the film making crosses , so = that he can escape the fate he is subjected to , his destiny on earth .  = yet , he soon learns his evil ways for aiding in the deaths of others , = and subjects himself to a desert in exile , in hopes that he can reach = god .  before leaving , he asks for forgiveness from mary magdelene = ( barbara hershey ) , a prostitute who is also a childhood friend of jesus .  = =20  after going to the desert , christ learns his true purpose in life , = and what he must do .  aided by judas ( keitel ) , he sets off on teaching = the world his message .  along the way , he meets john the baptist , the = rest of the prophets , and tries to teach the world his message .  christ = is also confronted by internal demons and self-doubt , as he tries to = find his true purpose throughout the entire film .  during the story , = judas is the closese ally of jesus : his betrayal , argues the film , was = not out of hate , but out of love , in order to allow christ to die .  =20  he is eventually captured , and crucified as per the bibile .  = however , as he is about to die on the cross , he is saved by a girl , who = brings him to his marriage with mary magdelene .  the girl is a guardian = angel who is from god , and who has saved him from his death .  jesus goes = on to live a life as a man , as a carpenter , and does not die on the = cross .  on his deathbed , in the final moments of his life , he is visited = by the prophets , and by judas , who denounces his master for " not keeping = his end of the bargain . "  judas reveals the angel to truly be the devil , = and the life jesus had lived to be the ultimate selfish act .  jesus = escapes from his deathbed , and asks his father for forgiveness , for = succumbing to his last temptation .  visually and aurally , the film is absolutely breathtaking .  no other = director has even come close to realizing jerusalem during the time of = christ's life to the screen .  peter gabriel contributes a score than is = simply astonishing , with pulsing rhythms that capture the viewer .  the = performances are simply exquisite , with dafoe leading the way with a = mesmerizing turn as jesus .  keitel , although his accent is a problem , is = passionately brilliant , fighting through language to bring the character = to life .  the visuals are also amazing .  scorsese frames his movie in a = harsh tone , leaving the impression that jesus truly is a man who is = having human frailties .  the film , though , has many trouble spots .  paul schrader's script is = one .  schrader uses modern-day new york english to tell the story , along = with new york words , new york mannerisms , and new york slang speech .  = the film also does not focus on the godly aspects of christ .  there is = no underlying message behind the man's words .  the film fails to capture = the glory and splendor of christ .  had it faithfully explored that = aspect , than the dichotomy of jesus' soul , his frailties and doubt mixed = with his unmistakable glory , would have been simply spectacular .  the = message of christ is confused between love and violence , and the film = merely tells us jesus is great , instead of showing us his greatness .  the film is also overlong .  it just drags in the middle , with = nothing truly happening .  christ is a confused figure , in the sense that = the audience doesn't know who he really is .  schrader forgets to give = jesus a message , to show that he truly is the messiah , to give him the = divinity .  without that , he is a rambling prophet , who the audience = themselves do not believe .  there are several moments of accidental = hilarity , and most of them occur when jesus is attempting to preach .  = there are moments of brief awe and power , followed by moments of = confused hilarity .  that said , the controversial temptation sequence is something to = behold .  it is a step in an unexpected direction , one that leaves the = audience puzzled , until the arrival of the disciples .  it is a simply = breathtaking scene , with jesus about to die as a mortal .  it is truly = one of scorsese's finest moments .  it is unfortunate that scorsese = couldn't make a film about christ as powerful as that one scene .  =20 
neg@ well , as i check my score card for what i've done this holiday weekend , it reads good ideas : 0 and dumb ideas : 1 .  i don't know what i was thinking when i decided to watch this movie .  but in my defense , i can only say that it was someone else who urged me to see this with him .  the film that i'm talking about is `a night at the roxbury , ' one of those offerings based on a saturday night live skit .  wayne and garth , these two are not .  rather , we meet doug and steve butabi ( the actors' names are not worth mentioning ) , two eternal partyers whose greatest ambitions in life seem to be finding a way to get into the hottest night club in the city , the roxbury .  driving in their dad's bmw and donning metallic disco suits right out of miami vice , they try to bribe the bouncer to get into the club .  `have you met my friend washington and his friend roosevelt , ' they confidently say as they pull out spare pocket change .  their second greatest ambition seems to be oozing out as many silly pick-up lines as is humanly possible in order to start a conversation with a girl ( `let me see that label .  just as i thought - made in heaven , ' says one of the brothers ) .  and , like the losers that they are , they fail to do either for much of the film .  however , as fate would have it , an accidental meeting with `what-ever-happened-to' richard grieco gives them the all-important ticket to get in .  their sad lives take on a whole new direction .  they make an important contact with the club owner who believes that these two brothers have uncanny insight into the club scene .  and they are mistaken as rich swingers by two voluptuous young women .  but their newfound popularity does not impress their father , who has other plans for them .  the unfortunate thing about this film is that this is a one-joke movie , and the brothers are the joke .  actually , there's about 10 mintues worth of tolerable stuff .  alas , too long for tv and way too short for a feature-length film .  thus , there just isn't enough material to sustain the 83-minute movie .  there's no plot to be found and everything that these two do seem to culminate in an opportunity to execute their trademark move of snapping their heads in unison to the funky beat of haddaway's europop song , what is love .  i was amazed that none of the two suffered from whiplash .  to take up more film time , there is a subplot involving the daughter of the businessman next door who wants to marry doug .  this creates not only friction between the brothers , but their unlikely pairing will also agitate audience members as well .  she's educated and a forebearing witch .  meanwhile , doug is a complete loser .  how did these two ever get together ?  i suppose that if i can ever figure out the answer to that question , i'll have figured out why i decided to go and see this movie .  if you're looking for entertainment , you won't find it at the roxbury . 
pos@ driving miss daisy takes its sweet time to tell a small , intimate story .  it's a quiet film , a slow film , a deliberate film .  but if you're patient with it , the movie offers innumerable rewards , such as a pair of self-assured performances by morgan freeman and jessica tandy .  driving miss daisy is based on alfred uhry's pulitzer-prize winning play of the same name , which first opened in new york four years ago .  the play has garnered international acclaim with productions in chicago , los angeles , london , vienna , norway , and the soviet union .  uhry himself wrote the screenplay for the film adaptation of driving miss daisy ; he also penned the wonderful sleeper , mystic pizza .  the film , like the play , is set in atlanta , georgia , and it revolves around two people in their twilight years : a cranky , 70-something jewish widow who feels guilty about her wealth and a 60-something black man who becomes her chauffeur .  the movie relies on character , rather than plot , to propel the action .  in fact , the movie has no discernible plot in the traditional sense ; it doesn't present a linear story in which all the scenes flow together .  rather , driving miss daisy is made up of the routine activities of everyday life : shopping , listening to the radio , visiting the cemetery , eating fried chicken , and so on .  the film also incorporates into the story line actual events in atlanta's history , including the 1958 bombing of the temple ( the city's oldest jewish congregation ) and a 1965 ceremony honoring the reverend dr . martin luther king , jr .  the story begins in 1948 with daisy ( tandy ) crashing and wrecking her packard as she pulls out of her driveway .  the insurance company cancels her insurance , and her son , boolie , decides to hire her a chauffeur .  freeman , reprising his role from the play , plays the chauffeur , hoke .  the film chronicles the warm friendship that slowly but surely blossoms between the chauffeur and his reluctant passenger .  driving miss daisy is a movie about human nature , aging , prejudice , and a great many other things , but more than anything it's about a relationship : one that spans 25 years , 4 cars , the advent of civil rights , and one gravely important 33 cent can of salmon .  daisy is strong-willed and set in her ways , and , from the outset , she is utterly opposed to the idea of having a chauffeur .  initially , she treats hoke with contempt , refusing to let him drive her anywhere .  once she does get in the car , daisy is the ultimate back-seat driver .  to make matters worse , she is extremely self-conscious about what others might think if they were to see her being escorted around town by a hired hand .  eventually , however , daisy is worn down by hoke's good-natured charm and infectious cheer ; she softens and opens up to him .  tandy plays the part of daisy exceedingly well , but unfortunately this feisty , cantankerous character is just a smidgen too commonplace .  we've seen this woman countless times before in other incarnations , from on golden pond to cocoon .  nevertheless , tandy manages to put enough of a personal stamp on the familiar character to make it her own .  freeman , as hoke , on the other hand , gives the more distinctive of the two performances .  there is something profoundly moving about the way hoke maintains his pride and dignity in a society which forbids him from using public rest rooms because of his skin color .  hoke is uneducated and illiterate , but freeman always suggests that there is something more to this man , an inner strength beneath the simpleton exterior .  both freeman and tandy seem to be in their element , in full command of their natural charisma .  they flirt with the camera and dominate scenes without overtly calling attention to themselves .  they bring a light touch to their humorous banter and to the movie's gentle humor .  at the same time , tandy and freeman provide more than a few moments of truly poignant drama .  in his first dramatic role , dan aykroyd is surprisingly chubby and unexpectedly effective as boolie , tandy's loving and patient son .  drama seems to agree with aykroyd ; taking a break from comedy seems like a good move for the actor , especially when you consider the wretched comedies he has made recently ( ghostbusters ii , the great outdoors , my stepmother is an alien ) .  the only other significant characters in the film are daisy's housekeeper , idella , marvelously played by esther rolle ( " good times " ) , and boolie's pretentious wife , played by patti lupone .  under the direction of bruce beresford ( crimes of the heart , tender mercies ) , driving miss daisy seems a bit stagey now and again .  but fortunately , beresford never forgets he's shooting a movie , and accordingly , he offers plenty of striking cinematic touches , such as gorgeous shots of flowers , trees , and tomatoes .  in adapting driving miss daisy from the stage to the screen , the filmmakers have achieved a delicate subtlety .  uhry understands that what his characters do not say can be just as important as what they do say .  beresford wisely exercises restraint in the film's dramatic moments .  the movie tugs at your heart , but it never goes for the jugular .  the only sap in driving miss daisy is in the trees . 
neg@ in the past , tim burton has taken cinema by storm with the action packed batman , and the hilarious ed wood , but lately his films just don't cut it .  sleepy hollow has some unique features , but the script is a terrible mess .  for those who remember disney's fantastic " adventures of ichabod crane " , it is actually superior to this .  disney's version was at least interesting , while burton's film drags on far too long , without any suspense or frights .  while the stories are similar , the new version adds too much to the once likable story , and throws in some weak dialogue to top it off .  ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is now apparently a constable , who was sent to new york to investigate suspicious murders .  the victims are headless , and no traces of evidence were found , until the murderer reveals himself , hence the headless horseman .  now with the help of christina ricci and an orphaned boy , they must stop the headless horseman from a killing spree , that could destroy the whole town of sleepy hollow .  sure the headless horseman is an intriguing character , but the story has so many holes that even he nor depp can save this disaster .  in the original , the headless horseman was meant to be unstoppable .  no one could stop him , not even ichabod .  by the end of the film , it had audiences in deep thought .  burton however concentrates far too much on the atmosphere , and how to make the main characters heroes .  he takes no risk what so ever , and this is where he fails .  another pathetic element of the film was the script .  like i said earlier , he just stuffed too much in at one time , and made it look real sloppy , kind of like the mess the headless horseman made with his victims .  he completely butchered the story to pieces .  thankfully there are a few factors that i particularly liked .  the acting by depp was quite notable .  he took the nerdy character of the cartoon , and simply acted it out in a better manner .  if it wasn't for his quirky one-liners , i doubt i could have remained awake , because quite frankly i was getting sleepy .  just when i thought christina ricci was getting to be a good actress , she winds up doing this .  it just goes to show no actress or actor can pass up a big blockbuster .  it's too tempting to let go , even if the script is mush .  the atmosphere too was quite involving .  i should have just gazed at the sets , and the eerie fog , rather than actually pay attention to what was going on .  at least burton's films are eye candy , even if they are trash .  the only real scenes of value were the tree full of heads , and the fight between the horseman , depp and casper van dien .  other than that , i wish i could just fast forward through all the gaping holes in the film , and just sit back and stare at the scenery .  by the end , i can only think back and laugh at how bad sleepy hollow developed .  this is the biggest disappointment of the year , especially when such a talented director like burton handles a project like this .  don't waste your time or money , because your head will feel hollow . 
pos@  " a breed apart " casts rutger hauer as a crazy , bird-loving recluse who picks his feathered friends over kathleen turner .  a bit hard to swallow ?  that's only the first of many improbabilities in this film .  hauer stars as a man obsessed with keeping the birds on his island safe , while boothe plays a guy hired to steal a couple of rare eagle eggs by a rich egg collector .  turner is the woman caught between the two men .   " a breed apart " isn't a bad movie , exactly .  indeed , i found myself rooting for both the hauer and boothe characters , even though their goals couldn't be more different .  the problem with the film is that there are just too many inconsistencies .  for example , early on in the film , hauer physically assaults two drunken rednecks shooting at " his " birds .  later on , the rednecks come back for revenge with four other people , and hauer kills a few of them .  i have a tough time believing that the police wouldn't get involved at that point .  another problem is the silly love-triangle that develops .  i didn't care one way or the other who ended up with turner .  i was more interested in finding out which of the two men would be victorious in their respective missions .  however , despite this uninteresting sub-plot , turner did manage to give a great performance as the woman who reminds the two men that sometimes there's more to life than money and birds .  as for hauer , he's an actor i've always admired .  he has a penchant for picking strange and unusual characters .  and this one is no exception .  he's frequently seen riding around his island on a white horse , wearing pirate's clothing , and holstering a cross-bow .  despite all his eccentric mannerisms , though , hauer always manages to let the human side of his character shine through .  for example , there's a scene in which he barks at turner and her son because they came onto his island a day early .  he comes off as crazy loner in that scene , but a few minutes later , he is apologizing to turner , and we believe his intentions .  soon after , we find out he's a vietnam vet , and his actions become fairly clear to us .   " a breed apart " isn't a great movie by any means , but it does contain good performances by all three leads , and it's worth seeing for that reason alone . 
neg@ ever since wargames , the first real computer hacking movie , hollywood has attempted to produce more and more films about hacking .  these films usually show the audience a look into computers that really is not impossible and is usually ridiculous .  if it's not this , the exaggeration about what is real is usually greater than you would expect .  hackers is guilty of all of these crimes .  to anyone familiar with computers and/or the internet , most of the movie is so incredibly stupid that you can't take it anymore .  those of you who frequent one of the greatest sites on the world wide web , the internet movie database , are probably aware of the section for movies entitled " goofs " .  this is the section for mistakes in the movies .  well , imdb sums up hackers extremely well with the first goof listed : " generally ill-informed and ridiculous to the extreme regarding the capabilities of computers and technology " .  and truthfully , this is one-hundred percent correct .  the plot , obviously , centers around computer hacking .  more specifically , it follows the exploits of dade murphy , a young computer hacker played by jonny lee miller .  miller should be extremely thankful for the film trainspotting , because if it were not for that , who knows where his career would be now after hackers .  the film opens with a young dade murphy being arrested for hacking computer systems .  he was forbidden to use a computer until he turned eighteen years old .  the film then picks up at that point , an eighteen year old dade murphy hacking away at the computer .  dade later meets up with fellow hackers acid burn ( angelina jolie ) , cereal killer ( matthew lillard ) , lord nikon ( laurence mason ) , and the phantom phreak ( renoly santiago ) , who are basically trying to do what is next to impossible : hack the gibson computer and not get caught by the fbi .  oh , and as a little sub-plot , dade also tries to woo acid burn , the only female hacker in the film .  really , i can't think of much more to say about the film's plot aside from what i've said .  it's just a bunch of computer geeks ( no , obsessive compulsive computer geeks a little too advanced for reality ) running around hacking computers and staying away from the fbi .  thanks to this movie , the public unfamiliar with computers now has a distorted viewpoint of computers and what they can do .  this movie makes computers look a little bit too advanced for their time , and the frivolous suggestions it makes are too many to list .  to sum it up , hackers is a terrible computer film .  if you're looking for a film about computers closer to what goes on in the real world , i suggest sneakers .  although at times it too may seem a little far fetched , it should be much more believable than hackers to regular computer users .  hopefully , this film didn't influence too many young computer users out to think they can do what is portrayed in this 105 minute waste of time . 
pos@ i'll be the first to admit i didn't expect much from the emperor's new groove : more celine dion-esque song-and-dance numbers , cuddly characters that become cross-promotion devices in mcdonald's happy meals , and hollywood stars trying to gain credibility by adding a voice-over job to their resume .  i was dead wrong about all of those things .  the emperor's new groove is funny .  damn funny .  and the cute characters in the film are the dangerous ones .  the script is fast and furious , with no singing and dancing .  the animation is clean and would give walt a warm feeling all over .  the humor is dry and aimed at both the cynicism and the goodness in all of us .  the story is ridiculously weird and comes off as a strange acid trip involving talking , cross-dressing llamas and schizophrenia .  here's the plot ; try to follow along .  set in a mythical kingdom , the film follows the adventures of kuzco ( david spade ) , an arrogant and egocentric emperor .  when kuzco fires his power-hungry advisor , yzma ( eartha kitt ) , she and her " assistant " kronk ( seinfeld's patrick warburton ) change him into a llama .  kuzco then gets stranded in the jungle and must rely on pacha ( john goodman ) , a llama-herder whose home was to be replaced by kuzco's water world theme park , to save him .  then the fun starts .  for the next sixty minutes , the audience is treated to something unheard of in disney films these days : imagination .  yzma , voiced by the talented singer eartha kitt , looks like a cross between norma desmond , joan crawford , and a really old vegas showgirl .  the dialogue between her and her oblivious assistant kronk is quick , sharp , and feels like an episode of seinfeld ( which would make sense ) .  david spade and john goodman's character interactions make you feel like you're watching an old hope/crosby film .  spade is beyond dry with his humor and shoots below the belt on several occasions , and i laughed out loud several times .  needless to say , that is an extremely rare thing in disney screenings these days .  the best part about the emperor's new groove is how audacious the film is .  the sheer weirdness factor is very high .  cross-dressing , schizophrenia , duality of soul , people being turned into every animal on noah's boat , llama cpr , homoerotic tendencies , an emperor with his own theme song and singer , michael jackson dance moves , and a guy that can communicate with a squirrel are only a few of the oddities that make the film a true orginal .  simply put , the emperor's new groove is one of the best children's films out for this holiday season .  kids will enjoy the adventures , and parents will enjoy the story and dialogue .  that's a tough thing to pull off in a single package , but this emperor manages to do it . 
neg@ call " hush " " stop or my mom will kill . "  or " mommy fearest . "  or " the hand that robs the cradle . "  call it whatever you want , but certainly don't see it unless you're in desperate need of a bad movie-induced chuckle -- " hush " scores so many unintentional guffaws that it almost qualifies as a guilty pleasure .  chalk its losses up to frequent stupidity lapses and apparent post-production tinkering ( it was supposed to open about a year ago ) , the latter of which appears to have given " hush " a send-off that's downright infuriating .  it's too bad that " hush " is so laughable , because the on-screen talent -- including the pairing of gwyneth paltrow and jessica lange -- is nothing to laugh at .  paltrow and johnathon schaech play helen and jackson , a photogenic new york couple on their way to spend christmas vacation at his wealthy , well-to-do family's horse farm/estate kilronan .  jackson's mother martha ( lange ) runs kilronan all by herself , and her genteel southern hospitality makes helen feel welcome immediately -- even if her first meeting with martha takes place while helen is in the altogether , caught red-handed after a bedroom romp with her husband-to-be .  but it seems that martha's friendly smile masks a much more threatening demeanor ; she's what you'd call someone who loves too much .  martha eagerly , deviously wants a grandchild , and then helen will be expendable , as far as she's concerned .  if there's one reason to catch " hush , " it's lange .  she treats the pedestrian screenplay better than it deserves to be treated , injecting martha ( poorly written though she may be ) with a little empathy to level out the psycho-playing field .  when she delves into martha's dark side , predictable cliches -- chain-smoking , staring in mirrors , praying in a confessional to a priest who isn't there , poking a hole in helen's diaphragm so she'll become pregnant ( and she does ) -- abound , but it's moderately entertaining junk because lange is such an interesting actress to watch .  veteran performer nina foch is smart and tart as jackson's wheelchair-bound paternal grandmother .  the rest of the cast looks ill and uncomfortable , especially paltrow .  but can you really blame them ?  the character relationships in " hush " hold a certain amount of promise , at least until their psychological impact is blown out of the water by sheer stupidity .  idiotic situations ( martha yells at a nearby horse so it will bolt up and knock helen over ) compliment idiotic dialogue ( " why did you yell ? "  helen yells back at martha ) , and the film takes the form of one of the shoddier fill in the blank-from-hell flicks ever made .  you can see through a great deal of martha's actions and lies from their conception ; why do people who have known this woman for years longer than we have never figure things out ?  does nobody communicate or read the newspaper in this town ?  if any of her potential victims thought , acted or behaved like normal people , " hush " would be a really short movie .  and then there's the climax and ending , which abruptly come when helen starts having contractions after eating some pound cake spiked with a labor-inducing drug normally used on horses .  after a really weird chase scene , martha calmly knits in a rocking chair while forcing helen to give birth in a bed all by herself .  i won't spoil what happens next except to say that it's contradictory , illogical and ( probably , since i'm no doctor ) medically impossible .  the final scene offers no closure , no resolution , no confrontation whatsoever .  it's just there , dangling amidst silent displeasure .  no one should like this ending , regardless of their feelings on the preceding material .  perhaps " hush " 's title is a plea to silence its audience's likely bitter word of mouth while exiting the theater . 
pos@ one of my colleagues was surprised when i told her i was willing to see betsy's wedding .  and she was shocked to hear that i actually liked it .  her reaction was understandable when you consider that the film revolves around molly ringwald , who hasn't made a worthwhile film since 1986 .  but the fact is , betsy's wedding is also an alan alda film .  and while ringwald has been making duds for the last four years , alda has been involved with several noteworthy projects , including crimes and misdemeanors and a new life .  written and directed by alda , betsy's wedding is a vibrant slice-of-life , mixing a few dramatic moments into a big bowl of whimsical humor .  alda's comic elixir is smooth and refreshing--and a welcome change of pace from the usual summer fare .  as bride and groom , molly ringwald and dylan walsh are the pivotal characters in the film , but they are by far the least interesting .  walsh is a nonentity , with all the screen presence of a door knob .  ringwald is simply unbearable and is easily the weakest link in the chain .  she looks hideous with her short-cropped orange hair , red lip-stick and grotesque outfits .  she's supposed to be a dress designer , but she looks more like a clown .  and to make matters worse , ringwald's performance matches her appearance .  thankfully , alda keeps ringwald's screen time to a minimum ; he is far more interested in the colorful periphery characters .  the wedding is just a device to bring together the bride's working-class , italian family and the groom's rich , gentile family .  ringwald's folks are homey and down-to-earth , with alda as her free-spirited father , madeline kahn as her practical mother , and ally sheedy as her lonely sister .  walsh's clan , on the other hand , is prim , proper and ostentatious .  when the two families meet and mingle , the movie becomes a story of culture clash , or as one character puts it , " money versus values . "  ally sheedy , in a wonderfully understated performance , is one of the film's most pleasant surprises .  sheedy expresses more with just her eyes than ringwald does with her entire body .  it's anthony lapaglia , however , who seizes the spotlight .  lapaglia plays stevie dee , a suave , overly polite mafioso who is formally courting sheedy with old-fashioned chivalry .  lapaglia's sincere but dim-witted character is a riot .  and what's uncanny is that lapaglia is a dead ringer for robert de niro , with a little bit of alec baldwin thrown in for good measure .  lapaglia seems to have attended the de niro school of gangster acting , and his inspired performance is partly a tribute to his role-model and partly a rip-off .  i don't know whether to say a star is born or a star is re-born , but i do know that lapaglia's over-the-top performance should not be missed .  the scrumptious comic acting , however , extends well beyond sheedy and lapaglia .  joe pesci , in particular , sinks his teeth into his role as alda's unscrupulous brother-in-law , a slum lord with mob ties , who is cheating on his wife ( catherine o'hara ) .  alda , faced with challenge of both directing and acting , somehow finds just the right comic touch as the bride's financially-strapped father , a carpenter whose dreams are bigger than his wallet .  the film adopts alda's psychological point of view as he tries to one : plan the wedding , and two : pay for it .  as a filmmaker , alda's style of humor is remarkably restrained and tasteful .  and while he doesn't have the comic genius of a woody allen , alda does possess the inspiration to make movies which are ten times more entertaining than the slop which usually passes for comedy . 
neg@ except for a few bright moments of good verbal comedy , that old feeling is embarrassing to sit through .  bette midler and dennis farina play lilly and dan , actress and author , once married , now violently divorced , and back together one last time for their daughter molly's ( paula marshall ) wedding .  lilly and dan hate each other passionately -- so passionately that they have sex at the wedding and fall in love again .  each ditches his or her current spouse of 14 years and runs off with the other .  molly , married now only 24 hours , runs off in search of her irresponsible parents while her husband keith ( jamie denton ) tries to console the abandoned spouses .  in molly's search for her parents , she somehow falls in love with lilly's paparazzo joey ( danny nucci ) .  meanwhile , the newlywed keith ends up consoling dan's wife rowena ( gail o'grady ) in bed .  the audience i saw this with apparently thought that all the adultery was hilarious .  i'm no dan quayle , but i thought it was a bit creepy .  the message seemed to be " ignore your responsibilities unrepentantly and have fun fucking who you wish . "   " family values " aside , there's something cruel about all this .  perhaps this movie would have played well as a black comedy , but the movie is a romantic comedy .  we are supposed to be rooting for these creeps .  reiner and screenwriter leslie dixon tried to make it easier on us by making the victims unlikeable .  lilly's husband is a new-age flake who rambles about " emotional valet parking , " so we can write him off as irrelevant .  dan's wife is vain , manipulative , and jealous so we can write her off as a bitch .  molly's husband is a career-conscious , self-centered republican politician who thinks she's too fat ( and just for good measure , he also fucked dan's wife ) , so we can write him off as a prick .  everyone else falls in love .  but still , that somehow doesn't justify the actions of the movie's main characters .   " he's a prick " or " she's a bitch " is no defense .  the movie is somewhat redeemed by some funny dialog -- often during heated arguments -- and by above-average performances by midler and farina ( breaking out of his character-actor mold ) .  other than that , it's a standard romantic comedy with a very substandard gimmick . 
pos@ as feel-good formulaic as it may be in its own way , shall we dance ?  also demonstrates a kind of charming restraint you don't often find in american films .  this japanese import tells the story of a middle-aged accountant named sugiyama ( koji yakusho ) whose mundane life is shaken up one night when he spots beautiful mai kishikawa ( tamiyo kusakari ) in the window of a dance school .  intrigued by her melancholy demeanor ( and slightly infatuated with her ) , sugiyama signs up for weekly classes at the school -- and , much to his amazement , ends up as attracted to dancing itself as to his young sensei .  meanwhile , sugiyama's wife ( hideko hara ) becomes suspicious of his late wednesday nights , and sets a private detective on her husband's trail .  in a hollywood film , you can bet that sub-plot would be turned into a stream of slapstick comedy and crazy misunderstandings .  in shall we dance ? , writer/director masayuki suo dispenses with it in a matter of minutes , using it to set up later character interactions rather than letting it overwhelm the story with pratfalls .  neither does he make the climactic moment of victory a competition between the hero and some mean-spirited token rival .  suo gives his comedy the graceful movements of his subject matter , allowing the humor to flow from the characters rather than forcing it upon them .  an opening prologue in shall we dance ?  goes to some effort to place the film in a sociological perspective , explaining how contrary ballroom dancing is to the japanese sense of propriety .  it's a forced message in a story which doesn't need such a culture-specific angle .  the dance school in shall we dance ?  plays the role of a singles' mixer , with everyone vaguely embarrassed to be there yet taking the opportunity to try on new personalities .  most amusing among these new personalities is the one adopted by sugiyama's co-worker mr . aoki ( naoto takenaka ) , a balding systems analyst who becomes a fiery latin lover when he dons a frizzy wig and begins to rumba .  sugiyama's awakening is less overt , but koji yakusho does a wonderful job showing a transformation of small steps .  it's a delicate performance with a huge heart .  shall we dance ?  is a fairly lightweight experience , which makes its final half hour rather a long sit .  suo crams a lot of exposition into very little time , including an unnecessarily detailed back-story for mai , resulting in a sluggish march towards the resolution .  it is here that shall we dance ?  feels most hollywood-conventional , attempting to blind-side the audience with a truckload of emotional catharsis .  suo might have been better advised to conclude with the small gem of a scene in which sugiyama and his wife take their first tentative dance steps together .  that's the real joy of dance shall we dance ?  conveys : its ability to create an intoxicating mood of romance which can soften the stiffest shirt . 
neg@  " in dreams " might keep you awake at night , but not because of its creepy imagery , bizarre visual style or story about a clairvoyant madman who lures young girls to their untimely deaths .  no , the source of potential sleeplessness here lies within the movie's brutally squandered potential , the least of which is an admittedly nifty premise - even by tired serial killer genre standards .  the big letdown , however , comes upon the realization that this 100-minute head-scratcher was masterminded by neil jordan , the man behind " the crying game . "  he's no stranger to cinematic weirdness , but this nutty nonsense really pushes the envelope .  things start out strong enough , with cinematographer darius khondji's stunning camera work guiding viewers into the bowels of a underwater ghost town during a creepy prologue that establishes a notably grim tone right off the bat .  this eerie opulence remains a dazzling display of showmanship throughout the entire film - there's even something macabre about the way khondji photographs a rustic , seemingly innocent new england autumn - but if there ever was a film that didn't deserve so good a polish , it's this one .  don't knock the look , but say what you will about the foolish plot , underdeveloped characters and flat dialogue .  annette bening , another asset " in dreams " shouldn't be so lucky to boast , gives an increasingly effective performance in a role that doesn't do much for her in return .  she plays claire cooper , a massachusetts children's book illustrator who's plagued by terrifying nightmares involving kidnaped children .  she thinks these visions are a warning knell for horrible , soon-to-be-committed crimes , but neither her ho-hum husband ( aidan quinn ) nor the ho-hummer police can muster up the sense to take her seriously .  this being a thriller , we know that she is , in fact , on the money , and it's a credit to bening's acting that she delves equally into claire's madness and compassion .  but as soon as a body turns up and claire has given the authorities reason enough to believe her claims , " in dreams " trades in its nifty supernatural chills for a long series of allegedly spooky jolts that simply refuse to make sense .  scenes pile up like a car wreck with little or no explanation or exposition .  subplots appear and disappear .  when claire finally comes face-to-face with our evil murderer ( robert downey jr . ) , it turns out his name is vivian , he's clairvoyant and he's got some major issues with mama , a la norman bates .   " in dreams " reaches its absurdist zenith here , and the climax drags with mumbled revelations and laughable twists .  some questions , then : what's with the garbage disposal retching applesauce ?  are the drawings on the wall blood or paint ?  who cranked up the andrews sisters on the cd player and caused the swing to move on its own ?  what about the computer ?  does vivian possess the gift of telekinesis in addition to his other powers ?  why would he continually endanger claire if she was necessary for his ultimate plan ?  is the woman in australia integral to anything ?  and the aforementioned flooded city - what function does that _really_ serve ?  sigh .  at least in my own dreams , i can imagine a better movie where certain talent didn't go to waste . 
pos@ what i look for in a movie is not necessarily perfection .  sometimes a movie has such strong ideas that despite whatever flaws it may have , i will prefer it to a better-made film that is not as thought-provoking .  the thin red line is flawed but it provokes .  terence malick returns to filmmaking 20 years after days of heaven and produces this meditative look at war .  unlike this year's saving private ryan , which dwells on war as a necessary evil and explores the moral ambiguities thereof , the thin red line simply says war is waste .  while that might seem obvious to some , only after experiencing the film do you realize how profound a waste it is .  saving private ryan has an underlying and practical acceptance that war will occur and it has a great cost ; the thin red line says idealistically avoid this at all costs .  one message is not necessarily more correct than the other .  it just depends on one's point of view .  in malick's film , war is set in a tropical paradise , and john toll's cinematography is beyond lush .  the setting poses the question , why are we fighting in the face of such beauty ?  in saving private ryan , the capture of a german soldier presents the moral quandary of whether to let him go .  in the thin red line , the japanese present the moral quandary of war in the first place .  they are just like the americans -- frightened and angry , grieving and praying .  all that separates them is war .  the flaw in the thin red line comes in the voice-overs .  unbelievable as coming from the characters and sometimes pretentious , sometimes corny , the voice-overs tell us what the images before us already do and are completely unnecessary .  dispensing with them , malick could have achieved a tarkovskian grandeur .  instead , he gets distracting self-consciousness .  aside from that , malick's direction is stunning .  the tracking shots across windswept hills and around transports speeding toward shore are extraordinary .  sean penn , elias koteas , and nick nolte give the best performances .  penn is subtle as a sergeant trying to hide his humanism , koteas is genuine as a compassionate captain , and nolte startling as a colonel whose blood vessels are about to burst if he cannot win his battle .  john travolta and george clooney are the worst in cameo roles .  ultimately however , the thin red line's interest is not in the characters and it is not in drama .  it has been frequently criticized for its lack of dramatic structure , but malick clearly has different things on his mind .  has no one ever thought that getting dramatic entertainment from war is exploitative ?  what malick is working with is theme , and in that , the thin red line is most provoking . 
neg@ mr . bean , a bumbling security guard from england is sent to la to help with the grandiose homecoming of a masterpiece american painting .  the first two words should have said enough to let you know what occurs during bean's trip to la , but if they didn't look out because you are in for a rather interesting if not odd ride .  heck depending on your humor you might end up laughing through the whole flick .  either way look out america bean is coming .  well , what can really be said about this movie , there is very little discernible plot .  that much is not hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy .  it achieves that goal rather admirably , but because it is that , the plot is just screaming for help .  the whole premise that the movie is based on is to say the least flawed .  the movie had its funny moments but there was no real story line other than something that could be thought up on a whim and carried through and in many causes ad-libbed as you went .  don't go into this movie expecting and theatrical masterpiece .  but if this form of humor floats your boat then you will truly enjoy this movie , even if you don't like slapstick style humor you will end up laughing because something's are just so stupid .  the movie goes out and accomplishes what it aims , or so it seems .  now when you look at the acting in this movie you have to think about two things , first was there any real acting and how hard is it to act in the slapstick manner .  well , there was no real acting in this movie but some of the slapstick wasn't the easiest i am sure .  i have to concede that mr . atkinson's acting in this movie is well done .  although the role isn't too demanding the slapstick is .  i think that the character could have had a bit more dialogue , it would have added quite a bit to the overall effect of the movie .  now the rest of the actors in the movie , bad acting and poor casting .  i think that the role opposite bean could have been better , just seemed wrong for the movie .  a different actor might have done a better job of it but i wont presume that wasn't what was trying to be achieved .  one thing that i must say , simply to get if off my chest is that i think transferring a sitcom to tv usually produces rather disastrous results .  tv shows should do just that stay on tv , it will probably save some producers from getting ulcers .  i can only think of a couple examples of tv going to the big screen effectively , the best known of those would have to be star trek .  bean seriously fails to accomplish anything close to what that series gone movie achieved .  now another thing that i have to state again is this movie has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly .  the form of humor in this movie will not be liked by most people , these people will think like i did that this movie is stupid and pointless .  but if you like the tv show you might actually like this movie .  but to be on the safe side i am opting to recommend you save your money and not go to see this movie .  there are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this one . 
pos@ natural born killers is really a very simple story that , in essence , has already been told in bonnie & clyde with some major variations in emphasis , mood and degree .  both films glamorize " outlaws , " in one case bank robbers and killers and in the other mass murderers .  both relate the story of a couple liberated by love .  but where bonnie & clyde was partial and subtle , natural born killers is total and blatant .  where bonnie & clyde was social , natural born killers is psychological .  what bonnie & clyde hinted at , natural born killers confronts and explores .  what bonnie and clyde stole , mickey and mallory kill .  to examine natural born killers as nothing more than a psychological odyssey of realization and exposure of the frauds surrounding them , expressed metaphorically as killing , subdues the mysterious power this film wields .  for the most part , when mickey and mallory kill , they kill all that frustrates them unnecessarily , they kill what is trying to kill them , they kill what dissembles and cowers from life , they kill what needs to be killed .  this mythos is at least as old as the hindu trinity .  brahma created .  vishnu preserved .  and siva destroyed , but he destroyed what needed to be destroyed to make way for the useful creations of brahma .  the following may be painfully mundane but metaphorically so accurate , i'm forced to say it for clarity's sake : a plumber must remove the old lead and copper pipes , that is , destroy the old plumbing system in order to replace it with the new one made of plastics .  your plumber , bonnie and clyde , mickey and mallory , and siva are all productive destroyers .  i think you could say without much of a challenge that religion is responsible for more killing and death , presently and historically , than any other phenomena .  muslims kill christians .  hindus kill muslims .  christians kill pagans .  jews kill christians , etc . you could reverse subject and predicate in each instance and still not be challenged .  religion is an orgy of killing .  the institution of the state only misses first place for technical reasons like it hasn't been a major player for as long or the two are frequently indistinguishable .   " the state is the divine idea upon earth , " hegel said , meaning it is absolute , all-powerful , ineffable , unassailable , infallible , authoritarian and patriarchal just like jhvh , allah , god , etc .  well , what does all this have to do with natural born killers ?  let me first say that religions of this nature , in the ideal , take the place of sex .  consider the catholic church , which in its hey-dey , took religion as seriously as any other religion or institution ever .  god takes the place of sex as manifested in all those vows of celibacy taken by the pope , cardinals , bishops , monks , etc . they forego the one , in order to come closer to the other .  during the middle ages , when this doctrine was unmitigated and unchallenged , the most repressive regime the west has ever known in terms of scope and magnitude rose to power .   ( parenthetically , witness plato as well .  in the republic , he attempted to launch the first systematic absolutist regime .  not coincidentally he was something of a mystic himself , regularly assailing the passions . )  catholicism , as policy , attacks the passions as evil .  it sees intercourse only as a means to perpetuate the species not as a way to pleasure .  masturbation is considered a sin with the sacrament of penance necessary for absolution .  this is religion , this is authoritarianism in its essence .  as further evidence , the nazis had the same attitudes as the church on these matters .  our culture , most of the cultures of the world have been steeped in this tradition for thousands of years .  we can't help but adopt , even internalize some of these same authoritarian attitudes , leading to a destructive split between the biological and social self .  mickey and mallory knox internalized them , too , then through spontaneous sexual awareness sparked in each one of them by the presence of the other , discovered them , and began expurgating them from themselves and from the world in the process unifying themselves .  it is a straightforward liberation through sex .  as some good patriarch once observed , " you can maintain control as long as everyone keeps their clothes on . "  m&m had a vision of what the world would be like without contradictions .  they saw what civilization and culture and everyday life would be like under such conditions .   " the moment of realization is worth a thousand prayers , " as mickey says .  as a the most consistent and impassioned critic of western culture there is nietzsche applying his typical stridency to the matter : let us look each other in the face .  we are hyberboreans--we know well enough how remote our place is .   " neither by land nor by water will you find the road to the hyberboreans " : even pindar , in his day , knew that much about us .  beyond the north , beyond ice , beyond death--our life , our happiness . . . .  we have discovered that happiness ; we know the way ; we got our knowledge of it from thousands of years in the labyrinth .  who else has found it ? --the  man of today ? -- " i  don't know either the way out or the way in ; i am whatever doesn't know either the way out or the way in " --so sighs the man of today . . . .  this is the sort of modernity that made us ill--we sickened in lazy peace , cowardly compromise , the whole virtuous dirtiness of the modern yea and nay .  this tolerance and largeur of the heart that " forgives " everything because it " understands " everything is a sirocco to us .  rather live amid the ice than among modern virtues and other such south-winds !  as far as i can tell , this is what the movie has to say .  its alleged critique of the media is only secondary , tertiary , quaternary , subsidiary for sure .  for example wayne gayle's first report ends with some gen x dude saying , " if i were a mass murderer i'd be mickey and mallory , " in his most excellent bill and ted voice .  on one level you cd make the humdrum observation that because the media had glamorized these two psychopaths that the uncritical , impressionable gen x dumb guy confused the matter and took them for heroes .  it seems more likely that he made an independent judgement at a subconscious level recognizing what m&m were up to and confessing that if he had the balls to be so honest with himself he'd be just like them , killing and destroying what deserves it .  let me exemplify what i've been saying by analyzing a scene from the film , namely the scene where mallory fucks the gas station attendant , kills him , and then castigates him for giving her " the worst fuckin' head i've ever had in my life ! ! ! "  now , i never claimed that mickey and mallory had a perfect relationship , because demonstrably they didn't , and this scene and the ones leading up to it show us this .  sometimes they are the source of each others frustrations , but unwilling to kill each other , since they love each other so much and are responsible for each others liberation , they must kill in place of their lever .  it's no secret that in this scene mallory fantasized that her victim was mickey .  as the attendant approached he took on mickey's character in the eyes of mallory .  she needed to kill him because of he kidnapped that girl in the hotel room and was having secret fantasies about her while making love to mallory .  upon discovery , mallory views this as a betrayal , judges him , and commutes his sentence on someone else .  the style of the movie is a whole 'nother matter that i won't get into very deeply but surely it is partially responsible for its power .  let me just say that its editing has the opposite effect of a western with shots that linger forever on a salon entrance or the like suggesting the expansiveness , barreness and boredom of the frontier lifestyle .  the rapid succession of all those 8mm , 16mm , 35mm images from various perspectives with a soundtrack sometimes in sync and sometimes out of sink instills a skittish , frenetic mood .  also , jungian archetypes abound .  these can't help but trigger deep psychological responses we can barely understand especially when they flash across the screen for barely a few frames .  some of the best scenes and lines that come to mind . ( quotes are paraphrased only ) :  mickey to mallory : " one of these days i'm gonna be cummin' for you , " in prison , while mallory jacks mickey off .  semen is a symbol for great potential and things to come .  at the time they haven't yet had sex nor have they killed anyone yet .  the two of course go hand in hand .  for an even more explicit semen scene see silence of the lambs .  mickey during his marriage to mallory : " as creator of my universe , i pronounce us man and wife . "  the way woody delivers this line is truly haunting , but telling , too .  it reveals m&m are well on their way to expunging all their destructive tendencies and replacing them with positive ones .  this is what mickey means by " creator of my universe , " he is giving himself or creating for himself healthy attitudes .  it is not necessarily a schizophrenic retreat into solipsism as it first appears .  scagnetti's first meeting with mallory is through her pubic hair he plucks from the gas station attendant's mouth .  the indian sage releasing mallory's father , who was reincarnated as a snake : " old man , go be a snake , " after telling his " snake story " that ends with " bitch , you knew i was a snake . "  after mickey shoots this sage to death during a bewildering nightmare , mallory says , " you killed life ! ! ! "  this is another telling quote because it implies they didn't see themselves as killers of life .  then what were they killing up to that time ?  in some case just those zombies faking their way through life , the living dead , as it were .  in other cases , all the anti-life forces , the cops and their parents .  the butterfly just before the movie shifts into the prison .  it of course symbolizes rebirth .  dr . emil reingold , as portrayed by steven wright , passing judgement on m&m : " mickey and mallory know the difference between right and wrong , they just don't give a damn . "  this is reminiscent of nietzsche's whole philosophy , and maybe a direct reference to his beyond good and evil .  mickey : " the rabbit says the moment of realization is worth 1000 prayers . "  mickey ( again in his interview ) : " me and you , we are not the same species . "  notice when the escape is in progress we get some role reversals in terms of leadership and control .  mickey the prisoner becomes the leader of his little gang .  the wardens become prisoners and the civilians like wayne gayle and his producer follow the leader , no matter who it is .  mickey : how ya feelin' ?  wayne : fucking great !  mickey : you got the feelin' ?  wayne : i'm alive .  i'm alive for the first fuckin' time !  what an incredible transformation this is .  he got the feeling and he couldn't contain himself .  what a feeling .  that feeling of metaphysical freedom that you can create your own universe .  mickey when almost caught in a dead end , " think , think , think , think . "  go figure it out .  dwight ( tommy lee jones ) in general , because he may be the sickest fuck in the whole film .  his whole attitude can be summed up with , " destroy them ! ! ! " 
neg@ wyatt earp details thirty-five years in the life of same from around 1865 to 1900 .  after seeing the movie speed twice recently , i kept thinking that i was seeing wyatt's life pass before my eyes in real time .  this movie was boring , slow , boring , and slow .  there were a few scenes that tried to be great scenes that tried too hard and just fell flat .  the script happily woman-bashes but also tries to sound like an 80s movie .  they cannot have it both ways .   " i now pronounce you husband and wife . "  sure , they said that in the 1800s .   " entrepreneur . "  sure .  every bit of male-ego-stroking dialogue that wyatt's third wife speaks to him made me sick to listen to it .   " oh , the script was written by two men ? "   " no kidding ! "  the movie is torture to sit through .  the scenery is boring .  the fades were either awkward or cliche or to self important .  can you say poor editing ?  everyone looks ugly in this movie .  when you shoot people from under their chins , they look like they have double chins .  kevin costner has never looked worse .  he should sue .  he looks like he gained the 43 pounds that dennis quaid lost .  dennis quaid is marvelous .  if you have to see this movie just for his performance , go into the theatre at the movie's halfway mark .  doc holliday ( quaid's character ) shows up at about the 90-minute mark .  gene hackman is very good .  is he in the credits ?  i don't remember seeing his name .  mare winningham makes the best of a small role as wyatt's second wife .  annabeth gish is good as wyatt's first wife .  i though that jamie gertz played wyatt's third wife , but i later heard that her name is joanna going .  she looks great but her dialogue sucks .  she also seems way to young for costner .  costner seems way to old for 90% of this movie .  in his first scene he is supposed to be about 19 years old .  yeah , right .  catherine o'hara and jobeth williams are always good and totally wasted here .  this is the worst movie that i have seen in years .  the last action hero was better that this .  go see maverick if you want to see a western .  bullets for dennis quaid's performance only . 
pos@ good films are hard to find these days .  great films are beyond rare .  proof of life , russell crowe's one-two punch of a deft kidnap and rescue thriller , is one of those rare gems .  a taut drama laced with strong and subtle acting , an intelligent script , and masterful directing , together it delivers something virtually unheard of in the film industry these days , genuine motivation in a story that rings true .  consider the strange coincidence of russell crowe's character in proof of life making the moves on a distraught wife played by meg ryan's character in the film -- all while the real russell crowe was hitching up with married woman meg ryan in the outside world .  i haven't seen this much chemistry between actors since mcqueen and mcgraw teamed up in peckinpah's masterpiece , the getaway .  but enough with the gossip , let's get to the review .  the film revolves around the kidnapping of peter bowman ( david morse ) , an american engineer working in south america who is kidnapped during a mass ambush of civilians by anti-government soldiers .  upon discovering his identity , the rebel soldiers decide to ransom him for $6 million .  the only problem is that the company peter bowman works for is being auctioned off , and no one will step forward with the money .  with no choice available to her , bowman's wife alice ( ryan ) hires terry thorne ( crowe ) , a highly skilled negotiator and rescue operative , to arrange the return of her husband .  but when things go wrong -- as they always do in these situations -- terry and his team ( which includes the most surprising casting choice of the year : david caruso ) take matters into their own hands .  the film is notable in that it takes this very simple story line and creates a complex and intelligent character-driven vehicle filled with well-written dialogue , shades of motivation , and convincing acting by all the actors .  the script is based on both a book ( the long march to freedom ) and a magazine article pertaining to kidnap/ransom situations , and the story has been sharply pieced together by tony gilroy , screenwriter of the devil's advocate and dolores claiborne .  the biggest surprise for me was not the chemistry between crowe and ryan , but that between crowe and david caruso .  dug out from b-movie hell , caruso pulls off a gutsy performance as crowe's right hand gun while providing most of the film's humor .  ryan cries a lot and smokes too many cigarettes , david morse ends up getting everyone at the guerilla camp to hate him , and crowe provides another memorable acting turn as the stoic , gunslinger character of terry thorne .  the most memorable pieces of the film lie in its action scenes .  the bulk of those scenes , which bookend the movie , work extremely well as establishment and closure devices for all of the story's characters .  the scenes are skillfully crafted and executed with amazing accuracy and poise .  director taylor hackford mixes both his old-school style of filmmaking with the dizziness of a lars von trier film .  proof of life is a thinking man's action movie .  it is a film about the choices men and women make in the face of love and war , and the sacrifices one makes for those choices -- the sacrifices that help you sleep at night . 
neg@ susan granger's review of " jeepers creepers " ( mgm/ua entertainment )  this nasty , little horror film begins as a bickering brother ( justin long ) and sister ( gina philips ) are driving through the desolate countryside on their way home from college and spy a man dropping wrapped-up bodies down a drainage pipe .  when long decides to investigate , there's nothing but trouble .   " you know the part in scary movies where somebody does something really stupid and everybody hates them for it ?  - well , this is it ! "  philips warns .  what he finds in the basement of an old , abandoned church is a dying boy with a horrifying , jagged-stitched incision from his neck to his navel , plus hundreds of other mutilated bodies , stitched together on the walls and ceiling like a disgusting tapestry .  long flees but now the monstrous , winged creeper ( jonathan breck ) is after both of them !  eileen brennan appears briefly as the cat lady and patricia belcher is jezelle , a psychic who explains the evil creature's bizarre feeding habits .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " jeepers creepers " is a fiendishly visceral 2 with an extraordinarily gruesome conclusion , giving new meaning to the old song " jeepers creepers . "  and now - as paul harvey would say - for the rest of the story .  what's more scary than the cruelty of the satanic film itself is the fact that writer/director victor salva is a convicted child molester who videotaped himself having oral sex with a 12 year-old actor in california .  sentenced to three years in prison , he served 15 months and completed parole in 1992 .  when salva made " powder " ( 1995 ) , the story of an albino boy with supernatural abilities , disney studio executives claimed that they did not know about his prior conviction as a pedophile .  and now , once again , in this mgm/ua film , that fact is conspicuously absent from his press kit bio . 
pos@ synopsis : retiring detective jerry black ( nicholson ) becomes involved in the case of a murdered girl , and promises her parents that he will find the killer .  he purchases a gas station on a route he believes the killer takes , and there befriends lori ( wright penn ) and her young daughter .  as jerry and lori fall in love , can he do what must be done to fulfill his pledge ?  review : at first , " the pledge " appears to be just another standard , if well-executed , crime drama .  it is anything but ; in its final hour , it turns the corner and becomes a riveting , terrifying study of its lead character , jerry black .  penn pays attention to all the trappings of the serial killer genre , but they are just window dressing .  his interest here , unequivocally , is jerry , a man so haunted by his pledge that it consumes the entirety of the his existence .  at first , we see this only in small hints ; some of his habits change , for instance , and he suddenly takes up smoking in a big way .  but then , when jerry buys the gas station and befriends lori , the true extent of his mania draws horrifyingly into focus .  nicholson is fantastic , portraying black with rare subtlety and animus ; jerry's gradual descent into obsession is like a car wreck , a thing horrible to look at but impossible to turn away from .  penn coaxes good supporting performances from much of the rest of his cast , too .  only eckhart disappoints as jerry's replacement , stan ; he never seems entirely convincing , too much a tool of the plot .  penn's direction is astounding , each frame looking as though it is parched -- of water , perhaps , or of sanity .  it all builds up to a shattering , devastating climax which lingers uncomfortably in the mind long after the house lights have come up . 
neg@ jackie chan kicks his way into van damme territory with twin dragons , an embarrassingly bland action comedy of mistaken identities .  chan plays separated-at-births boomer and john ma , whose drastically different paths . . .  aw , forget the plot description , it's not even worth the space .  but let's face it .  no one goes to jackie chan movies for the plot anyway .  the scenes where nothing happens in chan's films have always been little more than glue thriftily spread to hold the action sequences together .  in the case of twin dragons , however , the tiresome plot-driving scenes fritter away so much of the movie that you almost want to shout ( at the risk of demeaning the artistic value of cinema ) , " get to the good part already ! "  most of the film is devoted to showing the brothers' efforts to hide the other's existence from their own acquaintances .  why it is necessary to do this is not satisfactorily explained , but neither are a lot of aspects of the plot .  the twins' love interests , demure club-singer barbara ( chan-film regular maggie cheung ) and lusty bride-hopeful tammy ( nina li chi ) , get disoriented in all the brouhaha , yet strangely seem not to mind that they are not sure which brother they are in love with .  the scenes describing the boys' bumbling antics get stretched so thin we stop caring who chan is supposed to be in any given shot ( in several shots , in fact , even the make-up and hair people seem to forget which brother is which . ) .  even chan's so-corny-it's-funny humor is off-kilter in this outing .  some of the gags are so carefully innocuous they're annoying .  a case in point : whenever anyone sees the brothers together , they fall to the ground in a dead faint .  are we laughing yet ?  as usual , the final showdown is the film's jewel , a tour de force display of chan' s agility and grace .  never mind that it's not clear how the brothers end up fighting suited bad guys inside an automobile crash-testing facility .  it's all good fun , but too little too late .  perhaps chan's next movie should just be a collection of the last fight sequences of all of his movies .  they could call it jackie chan's the final fight scenes , and everybody would go home happy .  reviewed april 14 , 1999 at loews theaters white marsh , white marsh , md . 
pos@ maybe the most important thing about this movie is that it's not handled like the hallmark hall of fame movie of the month , because it very well could have been a manipulative tearjerker , broadcasted on abc on a monday night , starring kelly martin and yasmeen bleeth , respectively .  because it's not handled like the greatest story ever told is precisely why it's so great .  underneath the to-die-for cinematography , the brilliant acting , and incessantly wonderful direction is a film of modesty , not sure whether or not this story is totally great but with the balls to run with it , tell it in a certain original way .  it doesn't merely go from plot point to plot point .  it goes from character to character .  it obsesses itself with the depth and the style of it all , and makes the story of a world-reknowned cellist who contracts ms and dies prematurely into the story of two sisters , both musicians , who have a totally unique relationship .  it's that their relationship is the center of the story that makes this film transcend any cornball , shamelessly tired tearjerker qualities it could have had and makes this , unlike " patch adams , " effortlessly emotional and real .  in short , this movie is just awesome .  it merely tells its story really well , and that's something that just has to be commended these days , when most stories are botched because they're not told by great storytellers .  director anand tucker tells this story well .  he overdramaticizes everything , but still keeps it real .  the film tells the story of hilary and jacqueline du pr ? ( rachel griffiths and emily watson , respectively ) , two sisters who are first seen in childhood ( played by auriol evans and keely flanders , respectively ) as the very best of friends .  they are also both musicians , hilary a flutist and jackie a cellist , and when it all begins , both are considered child prodigies , but hilary is seen as the better of the two .  jackie , a bit jealous , works and works at her playing skills , and soon the tables are turned .  when they both hit adulthood , hilary strives for a comeback , while her sister is playing in famous halls around the world , but instead of fame , captures the heart of a hapless , joyful conductor , kiffer finzi ( david morissey , in a semi-star-making turn ) .  they marry , after a short courtship , and move to a lovely country house , making jackie incredibly jealous since her cello playing becomes a symbol of her current life : when she plays , she has the eyes of the world , but when she stops , she's alone .  she enters into a shallow relationship with an equally famous pianist , daniel barenboim ( james frain ) , in hopes that she may overcloud her sister , but she eventually begins to lose it , and runs away to hilary's country home , where she hopes to gain admittance by hilary to sleep with her husband , since no one she sleeps with gives her any pleasure .  it's all terribly melodramtic , as you can see , and by the time jackie has contracted ms ( in a brilliantly edited scene that surpasses the breakdown scene in the semi-smiliar " shine " in technical and emotional devastation ) , it would have been the time that i could easily call the sign for melodramatic overload if it hadn't been handled in such a way .  the key thing here is that it's not about her gradual death and slip into insanity but rather that it's about her tumultuous relationship with her sister , which , i might add , is perfectly realized .  their relationship is the most down-to-earth complex entity of the year : they love eachother more than anyone else in the entire world , but they're also completely jealous of one another .  when a young jackie surpasses her playing abilities , she tries in vain to make a comeback but can't , and almost seems to marry to get back at jackie for her success .  when jackie lands on top and sees her sister marry a wonderful man , she is jealous of her lifestyle to the most extensive brinks that i've ever seen in a film ( only two sisters who truly love eachother would dare share the same man ) .  and the whole time , their love for eachother is never doubted or even tested .  another thing i really liked is emily watson's performance .  i usually make it a note to never overpraise an actor for playing either a drunkard or a lunatic or someone with a mortal disease ( or any combination of the three ) .  my reasoning for this is that it's a fucking easy job .  the worst case for this very year may be thandie newton in " beloved " : sure , she's good , but what's so tough about playing a woman who stumbles around , slurs her words together , and acts like a three year old inside a 20-year old's body ?  hell , i could play that if i had a pair of breasts .  in that same exact movie , though , is a performance by kimberly elise where she has to be the rock that holds the family together as her mother slowly goes insane , her brothers run off never to be seen again , and her mother's lover is scared off .  she has to actually deal with real emotions , something much harder than mere stumbling about .  but the academy of arts and sciences loves loves loves overpraising performances like newtons .  if you don't believe me , look at jack nicholson's performance in " as good as it gets " : great performance , but easy job .  this isn't so for watson , though , because her insanity comes from real emotions , not just a plot point .  and thanks to the opening sequence , where we see her and hilary as kids , we understand the motives behind all her actions , and by the time she actually contracts ms and begins to loose her sanity and her life , we've already understood that this is the last straw for a woman plagued with terrible neuroses .  rachel griffiths , who would have otherwise been the understudy to watson's protagonist , actually matches watson step-for-step , because as watson grows insane , and demands unspeakable things from her , griffiths holds her own , and has to deal with what she is able to give her sister who needs emotional help from her .  griffiths , an otherwise unknown actress ( and watson being famous from " breaking the waves " and " the boxer " ) , is absolutely brilliant , just as absolutely brilliant as watson is , and if the academy and all the other critics groups , who've already deemed watson's performance the best of the year , glance over hers because she's the one who doesn't get to go insane ( read : she gets the boring role ) , then the scream of hysteria you hear will be from me .  after all , griffiths has the thankless job of keeping things real - the tom cruise role in " rainman " ( the one who should have gotten oscar consideration and not hoffman ) .  she does , and if anyone deserves accolades from the academy this year , it's griffiths .  together , the two actresses work extremely well , though , and both have to go through deep emotional hell , the likes of which haven't been seen this year .  if it hadn't been for an otherwise not-totally-great final section that deals way too much with jackie and not enough with hilary ( when the two had gotten equal treatment for the entirety ) , i'd say this is one of the top ten best films of the year .  it's so close to perfection , in its structure , its treatment of its subject , and its beautiful technical specifications ( cinematography nomination , without a shred of doubt in my mind , and maybe film editing ) , that it's nearly a shame that it's not the flawless gem that it should be .  but , hey , as it is , i can hardly complain . 
neg@ remember tom cruise and brian brown as rival bartenders juggling bottles of booze in " cocktail " ?  remember how stupid that looked ?  and remember the scantily-clad dancers of " flashdance " getting doused with buckets of water ?  well , " coyote ugly " does those films five better ( or six better if you count john goodman ) , since here we have piper perado , maria bello , tyra banks , melanie lynskey , and izabella miko doing the absolut spinning and jiggling thing while pouring pitchers of perrier all over their semi-naked torsos .  no , goodman doesn't flip jim beams or wear anything particularly risqu ? in the film but he * does * get up on the bar and start gyrating with the rest of them .  and the central character's love interest , played by an australian actor named adam garcia , proves * he * can get up on that bar and start shimmying along with the rest of them too .  what seems to have started life as a victoria's secret photo shoot quickly deteriorates into one heck of an embarrassing movie .  violet ( perado ) is a south amboy hopeful who tries to make it big as a songwriter ( not a welder ) in new jack city .  as na ? ve as they come , she's fobbed off by music producer's receptionists by the scorn-ful and has her apartment robbed hours after touching down in chinatown .  and , like her mother before her , she gets stage fright whenever she tries to do the open mike night thing .  when she sees a trio of babe-a-licious barkeeps thumbing through a stack of $20s in an all-night diner , violet simply has to check out this bar they call coyote ugly .  lil ( bello ) , the no-nonsense owner , agrees to give violet an audition but violet blows it .  still , lil gives violet another chance .  a riot breaks out ( riots are the order of the day at 'ugly's , since the staff are relentless in flaunting their sexual wares , flambeeing the bar , and soaking the patrons with diet sprite--this is certifiable behavior in case i didn't mention it ) but violet successfully subdues the crowd by singing along to blondie's " one way or another " on the jukebox .  she's hired !  and cured , since this little episode gives her the confidence to sing in an amateur talent contest where her dad ( goodman ) , the junk food-eating , laundry-impaired toll collector , comes to see her and is as proud as punch .  the end . 
pos@ mary norton's children's book series , the borrowers , has been made into several below-average television movies .  so , i wasn't too enthused as i entered the theater for the big-screen debut of the minute clan .  but i was in for a shock , the borrowers is actually a thoroughly delightful movie with plenty of good laughs and even some decent special effects .  the lender family is being thrown out of their longtime home .  their aunt , who owned the property , never left a will .  now , an unscrupulous lawyer , ocious potter ( john goodman ) plans to demolish the house and replace it with an ultra-modern housing development .  but the lenders are not alone in their house .  living under the floorboards is a family of borrowers , 4 inch tall people who make their living as scavengers from the human " beans " above .  the clock family of borrowers is as distressed as the lenders , especially once they discover the evil potter actually has a copy of the will which leaves the home to the lenders .  so it is up to the clocks ( pod ( jim broadbent ) and homily ( celia imrie ) , along with their kids , arrietty ( flora newbigin ) and peagreen ( tom felton ) ) to recover the will and save the household .  but when potter learns of the tiny people , he enlists the skills of exterminator jeff ( mark williams ) to kill off the clan .  there's plenty of attention to detail in the borrowers , especially in the furnishings of the clock family house , made out of lost board game parts and credit cards .  the background details are nearly as rich as the entertaining story .  the various predicaments of the clock family are clever and thrilling .  based on an original story , the screenwriters did a good job at imagining all the potential and unusual perils that could exist for a 4-inch tall person .  as the villain , john goodman's performance veers on the edge of being over-the-top .  but his performance suits the role well , and he does very well in the film's many slapstick moments .  with a nearly seamless mix of oversized sets , bluescreen shots and cgi , the special effects in the borrowers are very well done .  there are a few times when you can spot the effects at work , but none of them are so jarring that you lose the suspension of disbelief .  hopefully the borrowers will surpass the curse of being labeled a children-only movie , for it is surprisingly entertaining and fun to watch . 
neg@ gordie boggs ( arquette , aptly cast as a moron , as he is one ) and his best friend sean dawkins ( scott caan .  the son of james caan should not be reduced to garbage like this ! ) are two losers from wyoming with no jobs and no girlfriends , who look up to world championship wrestling champion jimmy king ( a terribly casted oliver platt ) , as he is everything they are not .  they finally get to see him live and he is screwed out of his title by the evil , ruthless promoter titus sinclair ( a wasted palitaliano , in a role originally meant for real-life wcw president eric bischoff , whose name was written all over the role ! ) .  gordie and sean track down king in atlanta and discover that he is not really the english king the wcw writers created for him , but a drunken , ignorant southerner who is as irritated by these two lunkheads as bob newhart was by larry , darryl , and darryl .  they sneak him back onto wcw tv , after which sinclair agrees to book him in a steel cage match in las vegas at wcw's next pay-per-view , against his rival , diamond dallas page .  if he wins , king gets his title and his career back , plus one million dollars .  wcw president eric bischoff , knowing his promotion was desperate with bad writing and ratings skyrocketing down thanks to the far superior world wrestling federation , came up with the idea for this movie hoping it would save wcw .  he was then fired and rehired two months ago , but by the time he'd left , they had already been contracted to do the film , and bischoff could not play sinclair ( which , in itself , is for the best , as anybody who has seen him on wcw programming knows that bischoff is no actor ! ) .  the characters of gordie and sean show you exactly what eric bischoff thinks of his fans .  he thinks of them as young , dumb pathetic idiots who will believe anything that will be put out in front of them is real .  that is why he doesn't take the fans into consideration when he books a nitro or a pay-per-view .  i have news for you , eric : no wrestling fan in this day and age is dumb enough to believe that professional wrestling isn't for show , unless they are four years old .  this is 2000 , you know , not 1985 .  bischoff will try to cover up criticism like that by saying it is a comedy , but i have no doubt in my mind that if this had been a dramatic , rocky-style film ( which it probably should have been .  professional wrestling is ridiculed enough as it is , why should the first wrestling movie in ten years be a comedy ? ) , gordie and sean would have been portrayed in the same light .  anybody who has seen the documentary wrestling with shadows , documenting wwf owner vince mcmahon's double-crossing of bret hart , will probably realize via the reviews and previews of ready to rumble , that it is basically a rip-off of that film's storyline with the poor man's wayne and garth thrown in for comedic affect .  you can tell titus sinclair is supposed to poke fun at vince , but any self-respecting wrestling fan knows that sinclair is more inspired by bischoff than vince , and that vince did what he had to do to bret hart .  all of these aspects of the film , needless to say , seriously offended me as a wrestling fan .  another thing i found disturbing about the film was the romance between gordie and nitro girl sasha ( the lovely rose mcgowan ) .  wouldn't it have been easier to bring something new into the relationship rather than revealing she was only working on gordie at sinclair's insistance ?  i hate that cliche !  the world wrestling federation would have made a better film .  they are the promotion everyone cares about , they are winning the ratings , they have better wrestlers , and they take their fans into consideration and don't treat fans like morons .  so , vince , how about a movie ? 
pos@ roman emperor marcus aurelius ( richard harris ) chooses his trusted general maximus ( russell crowe ) as his successor .  however the emperor's evil son commodus ( joaquin phoenix ) murders his father before the announcement can be made , and maximus ( as well as his family ) is sentenced to be executed .  maximus is able to escape his executioners , but is later captured and sold as a slave to proximo ( oliver reed ) .  proximo is looking for gladiators to earn himself money ( he being a former gladiator himself ) , and maximus reluctantly uses his skills to prove himself a powerful gladiator .  when emperor commodus announces that new games will be held in the colisseum , proximo takes his gladiators there to do battle .  maximus sees this as his chance to exact revenge on commodus .  gladiator begins with a great battle sequence between the roman army and germania , and actually is able to maintain interest during the now required " 40 minutes of exposition after a kick ass opening sequence " style of moviemaking .  the only downfall of the opening sequence is the editing style used . . .  it's choppy slow-motion which is unsettling and distracting .  it's similar to the opening sequence in saving private ryan , but nowhere near as effective .  the actual gladiator battles are thrilling , but also a bit disjointed .  many times it's unclear as to exactly what's going on . . .  all the audience can tell is that blood is being spilled .  we're not sure who's blood or by who's hand though .  there's an instance of this earlier in the film too that's disappointing .  it's comes when maximus escapes his executioners .  some flashes and a few quick cuts later and maximus is free . . .  but i still don't know exactly how he did it .  russell crowe should have become a major star after his gleefully over the top role as a computer generated serial killer in 1995's virtuosity .  for whatever reason his stardom never arrived . . .  but he should have it now .  from here on moviegoers should now be able to say , " let's go see the new russell crowe movie " .  he gets the best scene in the film ( and one of the best moments of all recent movies ) when he reveals his identity to commodus in the colisseum .  it's both rousing and chilling .  joaquin phoenix does a very effective job of making commodus a person and not just a cartoon character ( which could have easily happened ) .  commodus is conniving , sneaky and whiny , but phoenix never lets the character get silly .  it's a very good ( and very creepy ) performance .  oliver reed died during the filming of gladiator , and it's a huge loss to the acting world .  i've always been fascinated with reed . . .  he's one of those very talented performers who once had a fine career but ended up in direct to video junk during his twilight years .  it's ironic that this film probably would have gotten him back into real movies again , as he gives a fun and sincere performance .  the film is dedicated to him , and he will surely be missed .  reed's death presented the filmmakers with an obvious problem , as he still had scenes to be completed .  rather than recast the role ( and end up reshooting a great deal of footage ) , a digital version of oliver reed was created at a reported cost of 2 million dollars .  ironically , that was probably more money than reed ever earned for a single film .  anyway , this digital effect is only used in one scene that i am aware of ( for about twenty seconds ) and if you aren't looking for it you won't even be able to tell .  some of the other digital effects are less convincing however . . .  and like i always say , noticable digital effects take me out of a movie immediately .  it's sad that such a good film has these distractions .  movies like the fall of the roman empire and spartacus seemed to do okay without the use of computer effects .  keep in mind that gladiator is based on real people and real events , but is entirely a work of fiction .  however it's a work of fiction that's great entertainment , and another film to add to the list of damn fine flicks released in 2000 a . d . 
neg@ plot : lara croft is british , rich and kicks a lot of ass .  she also likes to raid tombs but when the illuminata discover that all nine planets are about to stand in alignment for the first time in 5000 years , and that lara holds the key to time , well , needless to say , they want to nab it from her .  oh yeah , lara also likes to sport a lot of tight shirts . . . hummana-hummana-hummana . . .  critique : angelina jolie was great in this movie .  there were also about three " action scenes " that were pretty cool to look at in this film .  uhhhhhm , unfortunately the rest of the movie sucked !  bad dialogue , generic sidekicks and bad guys , a lame mystery , yoda-esque moments with mumbo-jumbo being sprouted about and even some crappy cgi near the end .  all in all , this movie wasn't the horror show that some of the early reviews had warned us about , especially since every other scene does feature jolie's torpedoes begging to burst out of her lucky shirts , but it was quite the letdown nonetheless , especially when you consider the major opportunity that the filmmakers had here to create a cool , hip woman hero , based on a popular video game .  i don't know , i guess you have to put most of the blame on director simon west , who didn't really tie the whole movie together all that well .  the film lacked energy , a consistent pace and well . . . a  fun time !  i felt kinda depressed while watching this movie .  all that " father " crap was horrible and the dialogue given to poor john voight to recite was just plain embarrassing ( and i'm not even gonna mention his moustache . . . hehehe ) .  why have this shite in the movie at all ? ! ?  i especially hated the scenes in which some ghost-like figure , friend or child would ramble on about lara croft's father while all the time , i'm not giving one ounce of crap as to what they're talking about .  i guess that's called lack of " character development " , right ?  that's when a movie builds enough background into the characters on the screen , so that we could actually " get into " it and care about them .  i didn't care about anyone in this movie , and was bored during most of its " let's explain why we're doing all this gobbledygook " moments .  and even though i thought that jolie kicked some mighty ass ( damn , did she look sexy blasting those guns or what ? ! ? ) , everybody else around her was so goddamn boring !  her butler was a throwaway with no personality , her side-kick was supposed to be funny but just annoyed me every time he said the word " bugger " ( and he says it a lot , trust me ! ) and all of the so-called bad guys just spewed one-dimension !  they had no spark , no energy amongst them , and even though a few of the action scenes in the movie were cool ( see the trailer and you'll know which ones i'm talking about ) , the overall picture was lame and the dialogue and mystical bull-crap just buried it even further .  also , for a movie that's supposed to be about all of these exotic locations , i wasn't necessarily impressed by any of its exterior shots , and even less so with its interiors , which all looked like they were shot in the same room .  mind you , i won't go as far as to say that it's the " worst movie of the year " ( remember that i actually have to go see freddie prinze jr . movies also ! ) , but it's definitely the worst film that i've seen during this summer movie season ( of course , it's still early and i'm sure there are a few more garbage heaps coming down the pike ) .  skip this one altogether and rent any of the indiana jones movies instead . . . trust  me , you'll miss the boobs but end your night with some rock-solid porn and it's all good !  where's joblo coming from ?  raiders of the lost ark ( 10/10 ) - the mummy ( 8/10 ) - lost in space ( 7/10 ) - the mummy returns ( 6/10 ) - the general's daughter ( 3/10 ) - romancing the stone ( 7/10 ) - wild wild west ( 3/10 ) - mission impossible 2 ( 7/10 ) 
pos@ the film " magnolia " can be compared to a simple flower as its title and movie poster suggests .  the dozens of characters introduced and developed are like the petals on the flower .  they all come from the same stem and as the flower begins to develop they grow farther and farther apart .  the numerous characters in the film are all closely connected no matter how different they are from one another socially .  from a humiliated but kind cop to an aging game show host , each one of these characters is suffering the same kind of pain .  they are each seriously lonely and seek the perfect companion to end this loneliness .  whether this companion is a distant family member or a spouse , each character begs for one and spends the whole film searching for the perfect one .   " magnolia " is a clever , well thought out film from prodigy director-writer paul thomas anderson of " boogie nights " fame .  the detailed character analyses and the powerful script make " magnolia " memorable .  however , what really is impressive is that even though there are tons of characters in several unrelated stories , the film is never confusing .  anderson's control over transitioning from one story to another story is masterful .  he also knows exactly when to cut to another subplot since not one of " magnolia's " scenes drag on too long .  any three hour film that does not deliver even one uninteresting scene is definitely worth recommending .  from the fascinating beginning to the risky yet surprisingly satisfying ending the film just doesn't get boring .  it is obvious that anderson put a lot of time into connecting each subplot .  this is the ultimate game of six degrees of separation .  every character is connected to every other character by at the most two degrees .  for example , cop john c . reilly is connected to game show host phillip baker hall through hall's daughter melora walters who once went on a date with reilly .  the fact that each character is so different from the others yet so similar shows that there are universal pains that all classes , races , and genders suffer .  anderson's explanation to prove this point is both accurate and convincing .  the only mistake anderson made in trying to connect his characters was by making his actors all sing an aimee mann song simultaneously .  this was foolish not only because it was unbelievable and hilariously erroneous but also because it had a broadway musical feel to it and this movie is about as far apart from your typical broadway musical than you can get .  the performances in " magnolia " are perfection .  this is a classic example of flawless casting and flawless ensemble acting .  anderson allows many of hollywood's best supporting actors to blossom at what they do best , character acting .  all of the main characters in each story are perfect because they are able to reveal more emotions and attitudes in their brief time on the screen then most movie stars can do in a feature length film .  worth noting is tom cruise , who stepped out of his usual superficial starring role and into a funny but depressing tour de force performance .  he was probably noticed more than the other actors in the film by award givers because his role here is so much different and impressive than those in the past ( however any actor in this film could be nominated for best supporting actor without any complaints ) the only problem i had with the acting was that a few of the characters felt seriously edited down such as melinda dillon's character as phillip baker hall's wife .  she seemed to be thrown in towards the end and i felt very little sympathy for her because i had not seen her enough earlier in the film .   " magnolia " uses several effective metaphors to describe its characters .  anderson has the talent to make the audience sympathetic towards numerous people in only a few hours .  to see that anderson is able to perfectly portray this many different types of people shows that he has a keen sense of diversity .  diversity is what makes a director successful for a long period of time .  i predict a lot of diversity and success from anderson in the future . 
neg@  * * * the following review contains spoilers * * *   " it's just . . .  the way . . .  we are . "  --- a rapist ( matt frewer ) responds to supergirl's ( helen slater ) query as to why she's being attacked , an example of the mind-numbingly bad dialogue in supergirl .  i'll admit it . . .  i love superman iii .  i know it's hated amongst the superman faithful who dismiss it as nothing more than a vehicle for richard pryor , but i still think it's a worthy addition to the man of steel franchise .  supergirl , a spin-off film of sorts from the series' same producers ( alexander and ilya salkind ) , doesn't even rival superman iii in terms of quality , let alone superman or superman ii .  supergirl lost me from the opening scenes and went steadily downhill for the rest of its two hour plus running time .  as the film begins we see the residents of argo city , a commune like place consisting of refugees from krypton which resides in " inner space " , go about their daily lives .  ok . . .  what ?  so these are exiles from krypton , which blew up right ?  were they living there before krypton exploded ?  how do you get to " inner space " ?  this whole " inner space " notion is never explained , particularly in terms of how these people get information from the outside world .  how do they know where superman went ?  how do they know he took the name clark kent and now works at the daily planet ?  these kinds of things frustrate the hell out of me .  argo city is kept running by a power source called the omegahedron .  one day the founder of argo city , zaltar ( peter o' toole ) , gives the omegahedron to superman's cousin , kara ( helen slater ) , for use as inspiration in her art .  kara uses it to create a bug-like thing which immediately crashes through the layer of " whatever " that protects the city .  in the chaos , the omegahedron sails out through the opening , dooming the argonians to death . . .  in three days time , or something .  kara then climbs into a pod which zaltar had designed for interdimensional travel and chases after the omegahedron to save her world .  the power source travels directly to earth and lands in the bowl of dip belonging to a minor-league witch named selena ( faye dunaway ) who , immediately before her dip was ruined , announced her desires to rule the world to her sometimes warlock boyfriend nigel ( peter cook ) .  selena somehow knows that this ball from the sky will help her with her evil plans , and she sets out to achieve world domination .  selena is unaware of course that kara has also arrived on earth , and that she's arrived as supergirl ( complete with appropriate costume ) .  supergirl emerges from the bottom of a lake when she arrives .  ok . . .  huh ?  why does the omegahedron fall from the sky but supergirl shoots out of the bottom of a lake ?  attention movie : explain yourself !  i'm sorry , i can only suspend disbelief so much .  i can't buy into any of this nonsense just because the movie wants me to .  knowing that she needs a secret identity , supergirl basically " wills " herself into a school girl outfit ( complete with a different hairstyle ) , picks the alias linda lee and enrolls into school .  she's given her dorm assignment , and who happens to be her roommate ?  lois lane's sister , lucy .  ok , coincidence is one thing folks , but we're getting really contrived now .  what follows are some generic all-girls school hijinks . . .  complete with evil bully girls ( mean for no reason , of course ) and even a shower scene ( ! ) .  best moment though comes when supergirl decides to put a bra on over her school uniform and starts stuffing it with socks .  at this point i'm rapidly wondering why i'm bothering with this nonsense .  there is some credit to give to the film however .  one lengthy and elaborate sequence featuring an " evil " bulldozer destroying a small town in search of its " prey " is very well done .  also , its commendable to see genders reversed in the film , whereas the women have all the power and the men are merely objects and tools .  hart bochner ( die hard ) is particularly fun as kara's love interest , a lovesick landscaper who is under a spell cast by selena ( although he is unfortunately part of one of the film's more ridiculous moments , when he has to be rescued from being tapped by some " menacing " bumper cars ) .  then there were numerous little things that bothered me .  the flying effects are never convincing for a moment . . .  it's all too obvious that helen slater is hooked to wires .  instead of having her look like she's flying , the filmmakers wanted her to be " graceful " , so she poses a lot and does ballet-type maneuvers .  also , who are the first two humans to meet supergirl when she arrives on earth ?  a pair of truck drivers/rapists who immediately attack her and then meet a " wacky " demise .  there is also some rampant product placement in the film , most notably for popeye's , tylenol , and a&w root beer , with the latter actually putting its logo on the t-shirt of one of the rapists ( ? ! ) .  finally , just one word : monsters .  faye dunaway and peter o'toole ham it up unmercifully , however when o'toole overacts he's entertaining and when dunaway does it she's annoying ( her character actually says the line " seize them ! "  at one point ) .  dunaway's henchmen ( played by peter cook and brenda vaccaro ) fare much better , with vaccaro coming off best as the equivalent of ned beatty's otis character from the first two superman movies .  helen slater effectively portrays supergirl as the innocent , naive character she's written to be , as she's able to gaze at flowers and bunnies with the right amount of genuine wonder to make it believable .  believability aside though , it's still annoying .  now despite all this negativity ( and i'm not alone here . . . supergirl is not a well liked nor a well respected movie in many circles ) , leave it to the good people at anchor bay entertainment to actually make people not only interested , but excited about its release on dvd !  they have released two separate editions of the film on dvd , to the delight of many people ( including myself . . .  yet i'm still unclear as to why , since this movie is so awful ) .  the first and most widely available dvd release features the international version of the film which runs 10 minutes longer than the print which ran in u . s . theaters .  the movie is presented in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 2 . 35 : 1 , is enhanced for 16x9 televisions , and has been remastered in full thx glory .  extras on the disc include : a full length audio commentary track with director jeannot szwarc and " special project consultant " scott michael bosco , the excellent 50-minute documentary from 1984 called supergirl-the making of a feature ( dig that workout montage ! ) , 5 trailers , 3 tv spots , talent bios , in-depth storyboards ( accompanied by score from the movie ) , and assorted still galleries .  the transfer on this international version is incredible . . .  you'd think you were watching a new release .  images are sharp , colors jump off the screen , and the picture is free of scratches or artifacts .  only some special effects sequences show the wear of time , and there just isn't much that can be done about that ( unless you're obsessive like george lucas ) .  the new thx approved audio is loud and clear in all the right places , however you'll be hearing absurd dialogue and a mediocre jerry goldsmith score ( which is completely unrelated to john williams' classic superman theme and sounds better suited for a cannon films' golan-globus production ) .  the commentary track featuring director szwarc and project consultant bosco is a step in the right direction in the evolution of audio commentaries .  bosco seems to be an expert in all things supergirl and is there with szwarc to ensure that there's no dead air on the track .  bosco probes szwarc for information on virtually everyone and everything that comes onscreen , and we learn a great deal more about the film as a result of his participation .  although , at times you can tell that bosco is looking for a specific response from szwarc , and is surprised when he doesn't get that response .  we learn some fascinating tidbits on the track , most notably the " almost " appearance in the film by christopher reeve .  great detail is given about superman's proposed role in the original script before reeve ( wisely ) dropped out .  as it stands , superman is written off early on in the film when we hear a radio broadcast mention that he is billions of light years away on some sort of peace mission .  for the sake of brevity , i won't even get into that one .  szwarc also reveals that is was the conscious decision of the salkinds ( and everyone else agreed ) that supergirl needed to stand on its own , replacing the science fiction of the superman films with cutsy " whimsical fantasy " nonsense .  bosco also points out scenes not in the american release as they come along , claiming that had they been in the original release it would have been a hit at the box office .  again , for the sake of brevity , i won't even get into that one .  anchor bay has also released a limited edition ( only 50 , 000 copies pressed ) two-disc set .  disc one contains everything mentioned for the regular release .  disc two features the never before seen director's cut of the film , which runs 138 minutes long .  the additions mainly consist of scene extensions which don't add much of note , except for a few moments which lengthen peter o'toole's screen time ( particularly during his latter appearances ) .  the print is rough in spots and the sound is only in mono , but fans of the film won't care .  one question though . . .  shouldn't the director's commentary be on the director's cut of the film ?  i'd never seen supergirl before i sat down to watch this dvd .  i was nine when it was released to theaters , and even then i was smart enough to inform my parents not to take me to see it .  so when i popped the dvd into my player and sat down in my easy chair i had no idea what to expect .  i knew the film wasn't beloved and i never had any interest in it before , but i was willing to give it a shot because of the impressive amount of work put into the disc .  as the disc began to spin i was rather impressed with the opening sequence , which made me sit up and wonder if my assumptions all this time could have been wrong .  come to find out however it was just the chase digital stereo logo . . .  so i slunk back into my seat as the nightmare started .  at the end of the film , supergirl flies back into the lake with the omegahedron , and flies back to argo city .  ugh , i give up .  i'm surprised i even made it to the end of the film not once , not twice , but three times to review these discs .  supergirl is definitely a terrific dvd package , but a very lousy movie .  [pg] 
pos@ the love for family is one of the strongest driving forces in any man's life , especially for those who have fostered their family under precarious circumstances .  thematically in cinema , love for family has been used frequently and emphatically to highlight more abstract aspects of characters ; it is rare , however , for it to develop as outstandingly as it does in roberto benigni's neo-classic drama , life is beautiful .  through a central cast of father , mother , and son , benigni demonstrates the wonderful , undying love that a family shares in the best of times and the worst of times .  life * is * beautiful for guido orefice ( roberto benigni , directing himself here for the sixth time in his career ) , an italian jew , master con man , and aspiring waiter extraordinaire .  living in 1930's italy , he lives a carefree life of good fortune ; it is made even better when he happens upon a pretty schoolteacher named dora ( nicoletta braschi ) .  although dora is already engaged , guido manages to sweep her off her feet and persuades her to marry him instead ; the two have a child named joshua ( giorgio cantarini ) .  unfortunately for the happy family , the third reich and its nazi minions occupy italy and imprison all jews in work camps .  it is after the movie takes this dramatic turn that the movie's theme of family love becomes the strongest .  although prior to this turning point benigni plays guido with a sort of goofy charm , he relaxes the role to ensure his son's happiness .  now , instead of awkwardly seducing the sweet dora , he constantly reassures his son that everything will be all right .  benigni's performance is truly a well-rounded one , and certainly one of the more fluid turns all year .  the supports are all strong as well , but the movie truly excels in its script .  life is beautiful is a self-proclaimed fable , one which tells its story in grand , two-part fashion .  in certain parts it manages to sink to the level of a " saturday night live " spinoff -- a number of humorous skits connected by a token plot -- but in the movie's second half the script's circular nature becomes admirably obvious .  characters make reprise appearances in fine form , and certain events which are intially curious become critically linked to the plot's outcome .  in all , fans of foreign film will see this as a memorable motion picture , and novice movie-watchers may take this opportunity to see their first " artsy " film .  life is beautiful is an artsy movie by convention but easily accessible to everyone , and above all is a fine thematic picture . 
neg@ with his successful books and movies , michael crichton is doing well .  with early successes with westworld ( 1973 ) and coma ( 1978 ) , and recent films such as jurassic park ( 1993 ) , his films have been entertaining .  however , he seems to taken a wrong turn somewhere with sphere .  this $100 million mess by good director barry levison ( disclosure ) is dull , long winded , and a huge disappointment .  considering the huge budget , the all star cast , and a story by crichton , sphere is majorly disappointing .  the film opens with norman goodman ( hoffman ) , a psychologist who thinks he is visiting an airplane crash to console the survivors .  however , when he arrives , he his told by supervisor barnes ( peter coyote ) that he is actually investigating an spacecraft .  along with goodman is mathematician harry adams ( jackson ) , biologist beth halperin ( stone ) and ted fielding ( liev schrieber . )  they investigate the spaceship , find a massive sphere inside , meet an alien intelligence called jerry , and basically weird crap happens .  unfortunately , something went wrong along the way with sphere .  the film starts off entertaining enough , but throughout this very long movie , it just gets sillier and sillier .  the film jaunts along from scene to scene , never fully explaining what is going on .  the actors and directing don't help , either .  hoffman is on autopilot ( and almost seems embarrassed ) throughout the movie , churning out dull lines , and probably wondering what the hell he is doing in this movie .  stone is useless , displaying no emotion , and fails to convince the audience that she has any feelings for hoffman .  the only person who seems to be having fun in this movie is jackson , who's funny as the mathematician who slowly goes crazy and entering the sphere .  but he's hardly in it , and by the end of the film he is just as dull as hoffman and stone .  the same goes for peter coyote , who hams it up as the officer , but is then killed off halfway through .  the director , barry levinson , who directed the better crichton adaptation disclosure ( 1994 ) messes up with the drama and the action .  the drama scenes are , quite frankly , boring , and the action scenes suffer from overkill , with levison throwing the camera all over the place ( much like the godawful speed 2 , 1997 )  the writing doesn't help much , either .  although crichton is great with plots , he's terrible with dialogue , and practically every line in sphere is a dud .  the speech is too simple , i was hoping it would be a bit more intelligent .  practically every line is just stating the obvious .  none of it is smart .  also , where the hell did the budget go ?  the sphere itself is impressive , and there's a few nice special effect shots , but where the $100 million went is anyone's guess .  there's a giant squid attack in the picture , but not once does the audience see the squid , even though the film has a massive budget .  i assume the picture was trying to build up tension by not showing the squid , and if handled correctly it probably would .  but the whole scene is done badly , and i was just hoping we could see the stupid squid .  finally , the film has no idea what genre to be .  levison can't handle his own plot .  it leaps from hokey sci-fi , to horror , and finally the shining/event horizon psychological thriller .  and , of course , the film is very much like the abyss ( 1988 ) , although in it's defense , crichton did write sphere before the abyss was released ( and is far superior to this rubbish . )  it's not all that bad though .  the plot is all right , there's a few jump scenes ( although nothing very scary ) and there's the occasionally interesting bit .  but overall , sphere is a big waste of some fine talent , a lot of money , and a potentially good movie .  not really worth seeing .  overall rating= review by david wilcock 
pos@ ingredients : starving artist lusting after a beautiful woman from his childhood  synopsis : great expectations ( 1998 ) is a modernized version of a charles dickens novel .  in the original charles dickens classic an orphan boy named pip learns about life through his friendship with an escaped convict , his relationship with a bitter old lady named miss havisham , and his hopeless lifetime infatuation with havisham's snobbish adopted daughter , estella .  the gist of the story is that an anonymous benefactor sends pip to london for pip to become an upper class " gentleman . "  pip leaves for london with " great expectations " to be groomed into a gentleman so that he can one day be classy enough to marry estella .  but life has a way of complicating things .  pip becomes an arrogant s . o . b .  until he learns just who his secret benefactor is .  in this new 1998 version of great expectations a poor florida lad named finn ( ethan hawke ) with a talent for drawing has an early memory of helping an escaped convict ( robert de niro ) .  but soon the focus of finn's life becomes romance , as he develops a lifelong infatuation with estella ( gwyneth paltrow ) , an upper crust girl with some psychological and emotional issues due to being raised in a dysfunctional environment .  estella was raised in wealth by ms . dinsmoor ( anne bancroft ) , an eccentric , aged and embittered , man-hating single aunt whose groom left her abandoned at the altar on the day of her marriage .  this causes estella to 'fear the daylight' of relationships , but finn thinks it's just a case of snobbery .  when finn becomes a young man , an anonymous benefactor sets finn up in new york with the connections and publicity to be groomed into a famous artist .  finn leaves florida with " great expectations " to be a successful artist so that some day he might become classy enough to marry the snobbish estella .  what will happen to all of finn's " great expectations ? "  opinion : if you're looking for a romance with a happy ending , look no further ; you've found one here .  ethan hawke is romantic lead .   ( he romanced winona ryder in reality bites .  he romanced julie delpy in before sunrise .  he romanced uma thurman in gattaca .  now in great expectations he gets to chase gwyneth paltrow , a rail-thin blonde . )  hawke plays a lovestruck , earnest and unchanged finn throughout the film .  meanwhile paltrow portrays estella as alternating between infuriating tease and ice princess ; estella's whole purpose is to get men to fall in love and then hurt them rather than become intimate .  anne bancroft goes a little overboard as the deranged and pessimistic ms . dinsmoor , while robert de niro carries off the convict part suitably .  the difference between the classic dickens novel and this 1998 adaptation is that the dickens novel is ripe with deep and timeless themes about class struggle and love , whereas great expectations ( 1998 ) is more artsy , less complicated story about a 1990s artist dealing with a lifetime tease . 
neg@ disney's " air bud " tells a boy-and-his-dog story with a twist -- the pooch is quite an accomplished basketball player .  granted , for a family comedy , it's not a very funny or successful idea to begin with , but it doesn't seem to matter -- " air bud " is surprisingly solemn .  save for occasional moments of forced slapstick , the movie wags its tale with a straight face -- not a very enjoyable approach .  if " air bud " had realized its own absurdity , then it possibly could have been better .  here , we're actually asked to cheer a moment when the dog marches out to save the big game , clad in two pairs of sneakers and even a jersey .  its number ?  k9 .  yeah , whatever .  the movie opens as golden retriever buddy ( as himself ) escapes from his current owner , abusive clown-for-hire norm snively ( michael jeter ) .  he ends up in fernwell , washington , where mopey new-kid-on-the-block josh ( kevin zegers ) is trying to cope with the move and the recent death of his father .  buddy , kevin .  kevin , buddy .  once the dog proves his on-court prowess , kevin's self-esteem rockets .  they both win places in the school's basketball team , with the animal as their mascot .  but before they can make it to the finals , snively surfaces to reclaim buddy .  everything plays out just as one would think : heavy on predictability , light on an actual story .  the movie follows a calculated chain of events -- kevin's gloom fades , snively gets his comeuppance and buddy contracts rabies and must be executed old yeller-style .  okay , that last one's a lie , but at least it would have been a quicker send-off than " air bud " 's courtroom climax -- no joke !  there's even a faux-cute musical montage where a reluctant buddy gets cleaned-up to " splish splash . "  paint cans are spilled and newspapers are buried , all in the name of formula .  the end credits note that " no special visual effects were used in the basketball sequences of this motion picture . "  that very well may be true , and although to see a dog sink shots is quite a sight , a movie cannot exist on feat alone .  but " air bud " doesn't seem to be interested in anything else .  a friend of mine insists he saw buddy a while back on a segment of david letterman's " stupid pet tricks . "  i can't think of a more appropriate connection -- this movie is a stupid pet trick . 
pos@ the andromeda strain is the greatest science fiction film ever made .  i know that is very sweeping statement , so i'll qualify it by adding that the andromeda strain is one of the few films made that genuinely deserve the label of " science fiction , " stories in which speculative science is at the core of the plot .  2001 : a space odyssey is probably a better film , but it really only qualifies as science fiction if you consider metaphysics to be a science .  most all other films we normally classify as science fiction , or sf , are really just fantasy , action or horror stories set in a futuristic setting .  the andromeda strain starts out with two soldiers in a high-tech ( for 1970 ) van looking for a crashed satellite in a tiny new mexico town .  something bad happens to them .  pictures from a reconnaissance plane show a shocking sight .  apparently everyone in the town is dead .  the authorities call a " wildfire alert , " summoning four scientists , all but one of them somewhat reluctant , to a super-secret underground germ warfare laboratory in nevada .  two of scientists , stone and hall , fly directly to the town in space suits and find a town where almost every single resident literally dropped in their tracks , their blood turned to powder in their veins .  some went insane before they died and two of them , a baby and an old wino , are miraculously still alive .  they take the survivors and the satellite back to the lab , where stone pressures the white house to call up a " directive 712 , " an executive order to cauterize the area around the town with a nuclear bomb .  what they find on the satellite when they get back to the lab is andromeda , an organism that defies all the normal rules of earth-like life and mutates as it grows .  their only hope to cure it is to find out what a perfectly healthy baby boy has in common with an old derelict .  what they find out is that organism feeds directly on energy and that detonating the a-bomb over the town would only spread it across the entire planet .  they barely call off the bombing in time .  but then the organism mutates into something that threatens to eat through the labs defenses and break out .  this triggers the lab's last-ditch defense mechanism , an atomic bomb .  to those raised on the brainless action fare that pollutes movie theaters these days , the andromeda strain will probably seem interminably slow .  much of the film is a lot of people standing around looking at video screens and computer readouts .  but what the characters see on those screens ratchets up the tension with every turn of the screw .  the performances are universally fine , with the actors keeping things low-key and restrained , just like scientists .  to me , the real appeal of this film is the fact that it shows scientists acting like scientists and makes it seem exciting .  we follow the logic of their deduction step by methodical step , puzzling like they do every time andromeda behaves in a way we don't expect .  this film is only available on wide screen on dvd and that is the way to see it .  it was originally rated g when first released but it now carries the pg rating , mostly for very mild nudity and one scene in which a body's wrist is slashed , spilling its powdered blood . 
neg@ there are two things the american film industry should avoid at all costs .  one is letting an ambitious actor convert one of his or her favorite novels into a feature film .  two is never greenlight a sci-fi film starring john travolta .  to wit , we present the disaster that is battlefield earth .  a science-fiction opus starring the barbarino of the actors guild , battlefield earth should be shown only at maximum-security prisons when a prisoner is tossed in solitary for bad behavior .  sci-fi is always a tricky beast : tight script , a good director , an ensemble cast of decent actors , and the ability to suspend even the most difficult of disbeliefs .  battlefield earth fails at achieving even one of these attributes .  here's the `plot . '  the year is 3000 .  mankind has been become an endangered species thanks to the conquest of a race of aliens called the psychlos ( sounds like either the latest clown act from cirque de soleil or a white rap group ) .  a small band of humans dwell in radioactive caves located in the rockies in fear of the `demons' who dwell in the cities below .  the psychlos are strip-mining the earth for its resources and terel , played by travolta , is the head of security for the mining/slave base located in denver .  a young rogue named jonnie goodboy tyler , played with dramatic flair by barry pepper , ventures from the safety of the caves into the city to uncover the truth about the `demons . '  he is promptly captured and taken to the alien base .  after several attempts at escape , johnnie is placed in the middle of an underhanded subplot of terel's , involving circumventing gold from an exposed vein in the rockies to his own end .  jonnie , assumed leader of the mining slave group , then manages to attain all psychlo and human intelligence through a learning machine terel forces him to use .  then the story just runs along until jonnie teaches the rest of the humans the basics of trigonometry , the bill of rights , how to use a machine gun , and how to fly a harrier jet .  the whole mess concludes with a big , loud , obnoxious gun-and-plane battle that had me praying for the end credits .  roger christian , the director of this lumbering beast , must have rented dune , blade runner , planet of the apes , independence day , stargate , beastmaster , the airwolf episodes , the `v' miniseries , the matrix , and the omega man . . .  and decided to steal every scene he could for battlefield earth .  christian even shoots every scene in a weird dutch angle titled left or right for every frame of the movie !  and every scene in the movie ends with a middle wipe -- really .  the psychlos reminded me of a cross between jamaican basketball players with bad teeth and bloated hands and klingon extras working the star trek convention circuit .  travolta's acting hasn't been this bad since the experts or maybe perfect .  jonnie goodboy tyler evolves into william wallace with lines like `you can have your freedom if you fight ! '  then there's the script : the film just never convinces you that the plight of jonnie in teaching his fellow humans to fight and `take back the planet' would be a difficult task to achieve .  why ?  because terel provides all the necessary tools to incite a revolt -- for no particular reason beside the fact that `humans are stupid . '  terel may be right , you know .  humans made this movie . 
pos@ usually a movie is about something more than a soiled rug , but not the big lebowski .  the new offering from the creators of 1996's critical hit fargo , is to say the least , wildly entertaining .  originality has always been a strong trait in the coen brother's movies , and the big lebowski is insanely original .  it begins oddly enough when jeff " the dude " lebowski ( jeff bridges ) is mistaken for a millionaire , jeff " the big " lebowski ( david huddleston ) , who's wife , bunny ( tara reid ) owes money all over town .  two goons , out to collect on bunny's debt break into dude's house .  they attempt to collect the money that bunny owes them and one of them urinates on his rug .  the next day dude explains his situation to his bowling team ( steve buscemi & john goodman , respectively . )  he is advised to go to the big lebowski and get him to pay for the defiled rug .  he does this , and shortly after gets tied up in a kidnapping caper .  this is a extremely funny movie with lots of belly laugh moments .  the coen brothers have assembled a great cast that play off each other perfectly .  also several great supporting roles , john turturro as a child molesting bowler named jesus .  the coen's script plays off perfectly and it all goes together to make it extremely entertaining .  i doubt this movie will be nearly as popular as fargo , but its off the wall moments make it so far the best of 1998 .  if you like anything else the coen brothers have done you will love this one , if not they give this one a try its a little different . 
neg@ supposedly based on a true story in which the british drive to build a rail bridge deep in africa grinds to a halt after a pair of lions start killing off the workers in 1898 .  john patterson ( val kilmer ) , the bridge building expert set to oversee the operation , tried to rid his operation of the lions , but fails .  a world renound hunter , remington ( michael douglas ) , is called in and the battle , man against lion , begins .  this film has a great soundtrack , and wonderful scenery .  the acting is not too bad except the characters are all so thin .  we only see one side of each character .  kilmer is a bridge builder and that's all we see him as .  these lions kill dozens of his men and he doesn't even appear to be too upset about it .  and the plot ?  it's jaws , but with lions .  again we're presented with an animal that behaves not at all as it should .  it appears to kill men because it just likes too .  why ?  who knows .  i guess there wouldn't be much of a story if it didn't .  the problem is that there isn't much of a story even though it does . 
pos@ with the sudden liberal emergence of personal privacy abounding in the news lately , what with that whole clinton thing going on ( you know , 100 million bucks to discover the president got boinked by an intern - oh , please , government , waste my taxes just a bit more , would you ? ) ,  it's about time tony scott helmed the newest action pic disguised as an important if not slightly ignorant social statement .  with this and " crimson tide , " he's created two successfully chilly films that are interesting , exciting , even pretty smart , but never totally riveting as cinema , and the problem i think with each of these films is that each film is too obsessed with its message to ever be really satisfying , and too obsessed with looking all cutting edge to ever be totally smart .  that film dealt with a civil war inside a nuclear submarine over whether or not to follow rules or question them , and was appropriately scary and all , but never totally thrilling or overly brilliant .   " enemy of the state " is the same way : it's engrossing for its entire running time , and it's scary the way that it shows a man's decent into kafkaism , but it's too technical .  it's too cold and not as fascinating or exciting as it could be .  it casts will smith , one of the better big budget leading men in movies these days because he's charming and witty and never uninteresting , and hopes that his charisma can make up for his character not being well developed enough to really be a person .  i hate to do this , but last year's film " the game " got it damn perfect : it casts michael douglas as a deeply flawed human being , a man who is cold and has cut off everyone from his life , and then pulls everything he thought he had as a security blanket away from him and watched what happened .  the result was not only a film that was exciting and chilling , but also the best mindfuck of the entire year .  not that i want every kafkaesque film to be " the game " ( this year's " the spanish prisoner " succeeds with less thrills and chills ) , but it should be an example of what works and what doesn't .  will smith's character is , frankly , too perfect , at least too movie perfect .  he had an affair with another woman ( lisa bonet , ha ha ) , but his relationship with his wife ( regina king ) is basically fine regardless .  he has a kid , and he's raking in money as a lawyer , albeit a very good and reasonably moral one .  so he generally doesn't have any real problems as a human being , and is therefore boring . . . except that he is played by will smith , who embodies him with about as much will smith charm as he can without entering " id4 " / " men in black " territory .  he's a good dramatic actor ( just see the first half hour of " six degrees of separation " for proof of this , not that he isn't great the whole time ) , and here , he makes his character likable and sympathetic without any real strain on his character , which makes the film lack any real deep interesting qualities .  smith becomes involved in a mass conspiracy involving the assasination of a senator opposed to a government law that would create world surveillance , extinguishing privacy as we know it from the world , under the pretense that it would make crime easier to control , when he is passed a disk of the event caught on tape by an outside party ( a nature observer played by , uh , jason lee ) .  the government wants the disk , and is prepared to destroy his life to get it .  as smith's plight is dramatized , we are introduced to the masterminds who surveillance him , sitting in vans disguised as other businesses , staring at computers and pulling out tricks faster than a speeding bullet .  these guys ( played by jack black , jamie kennedy , and seth green ) are the most interesting part of this film because they're , well , fascinating : they're doing their jobs , which are evil , but the film doesn't view them as such , and they almost become our friends .  we like these guys for the sole reason that the film doesn't automatically judge them as the villains .  they're also scary because we get the idea that they're not fully aware of the impact their jobs have on the world .  it's as if they're obsessed with their jobs , not because they're evil , but because , hey , it's a fun job , and no one else can do it like them .  unfortunately , this also backfires a bit on the film : instead of being the flashlight in the darkened room that " the game " was , you see everything , and are thus not as freaked out because you know what is going on .  sure , you're chilled , but you're not exacty freaked out by what's going on .  but what do you expect from tony scott , the man who never met a five-second piece of film he ever liked .  he's a not-bad director because , hell , he is always interesting to watch ( if not occasionally moronic - exhibit a : " days of thunder " ) , but the reason he's not great is because he's too technical and calculated .  his shots are perfectly executed , and leave nothing to the imagination , and they're always making sure you're paying attention .  this is incredibly annoying , and it reduces " enemy of the state " to a mechanical mishmash of flashy images that never expand the mind at any great depths , but still manage to entertain without any real problems .  despite never actually becoming great , it's never actually boring and it's always intriguing .  watching the government set-up smith is endlessly fascinating , and since we care about smith's likeable protagonist , we are set-up for a good two hours worth of tom clancy-esque entertainment .  add the best big cast this side of the annual woody allen film ( everyone from gabriel byrne to dan butler pop up for cameos ) , and you've got a good old fashioned escapist drama which does all the thinking for you so that you never have to actually question the debate over personal privacy and so you can follow will smith's plight without a minute's worth of boredom . 
neg@ i'm currently accepting all future names for drew barrymore characters .  in _the wedding singer_ , she was julia gulia .  in _never been kissed_ , she's josie grossie .  future db character names include : janet granite , janey grainy , and for that nc-17 project in the works , jo-jo . . .  aw forget it .  i'll stick to my day job .  this is a teen movie , all right , except the main characters aren't teens .  drew barrymore is a copy editor at the chicago sun times who gets her big break as a reporter , only it's very clear from the onset that she lacks the toughness and the pushy extravertedness that marks the best of reporters .  the story she's covering is not really a story , but a story in the making .  she is to return to high school as a student and explain what's really going on .  the irony is that drew's character , was such a dweeb first time around , that she is terrified at going back .  when she does , she says the wrong things , wears the wrong clothes , and projects the " i know the answer " in class that popular kids ( or at least popular kids in the movies ) reject .  at least she befriends nerdy aldys ( joan of arc's leelee sobieski--watch for her ) , who turns out to be more beautiful than those who are " supposed " to be more beautiful than her .  what works : drew's geeky old-self .  after a start in films that was headline driven , and a nadir of roles that had her play the sluttish character , it's a surprise to see her with bad hair , big glasses and braces .  it's very funny .  what doesn't work : drew's geeky new-self .  come on .  nobody dresses as bad as she does .  couldn't she just go to _the gap_ and take suggestions ?  had she dressed like princess leia it would have been better .  the comedy is supposed to progress when drew's younger brother ( played with zest by david arquette ) reenlists to jump-start his baseball career .  now , how in the world can somebody as nerdy ( but in a funny way ) as he can be the most popular kid in the school . . .  in a day ? !  the dialogue in the film is , well , an embarrassment .  her co-workers ( molly shannon , john c . reilly and gary marshall ) are in terminal hyper-drive .  her teenage peers ( except sobieski ) are so inept and stupid that there's little bite from them .  couldn't the filmmakers watch _heathers_ first ?  lastly , i am proud to say that i caught a significant gaffe in the film .  if you see the film , you'd know what i'm talking about :  drew walks into a bar , has her hand stamped , and over the night associates with some rastafarians with some delicious , um , cake .  she goes wild , sleeps in late .  when she wakes , she rushes off to school , without showering , without noticing that her head , lying on her stamped hand all night , has transferred part of the stamp's image to her forehead , spelling " loser " .  funny , eh ?   . . . except that the hand would have transferred that image backwords . 
pos@ it is with hesitance that i call " apocalypse now " a masterpiece .  certainly , it had the pedigree to be one of the greatest films ever made , with a director known for producing masterpieces with ease , and some of the finest actors of the 1970's .  the plot , an adaptation of joseph conrad's " heart of darkness " , was set in vietnam , and the timing of the film was supposed to be brilliant , coming on the heels of the end of the war .   " apocalypse " certainly has its moments , some of which are the finest in film history .  the plot is fairly simple .  captain willard ( sheen ) , is a troubled soldier who came back to hanoi for a 2nd tour of duty .  his mission is simple : take a boat up to cambodian territory , and destroy the command of renegade colonel kurtz ( brando ) " with extreme prejudice " .  along the way , willard runs into a series of adventures , including one with lt . col . kilgore ( duvall ) , and a strange encounter with playboy bunnies .  willard' s four person crew finally make it to kurtz' compound , where he discovers kurtz has set himself up as a god among the natives .  willard's experiences with kurtz take up the last half-hour , with a confrontation and eventual ending .  the movie is visually breathtaking .  the battle scenes are exquisitely done , and the score is brilliant , setting a murky mood of darkness that is first-rate .  the collage of disturbing images that coppola presents is at times both astonishing and sickening .  the vast amount of detail poured into every war scene is stunning , and there are many episodes that are deeply powerful which resonate through the entire movie .  the journey to kurtz' camp is quite a ride , with psychosis setting in on almost every character .  the most interesting one is kilgore , the lt . col . who cares more about the surf than about the mission .  it is at times revolting , psychotic , and incredible , and it is one hell of a movie .  the scenes are bold , inventive , and powerful , and the acting is stunning , especially be sheen , duvall , and fishburne .  the narration is exquisite , as is the mystery of kurtz .  coppola sets about a hallucinatory ride through vietnam , kind of like " saving private ryan " on lsd .  the film is jarring in its implications , and psychotic in its execution .  the problems come when the film slows down .  one of the major scenes in the film , where the boat arrives at the final army checkpoint before they start their search for kurtz , is a colossal mess .  the dialogue is confusing , the lighting is atrocious , and the scene drags on for 10 terrible minutes of film .  the true problems happen after the crew does come into the kurtz compound .  the film slows down to a drag .  sheen seems forever captured by a madman , played by brando is a lazy performance that is not deserving of the accolades it received .  brando is in the film for no more than 15 minutes , but is bathed in shadows the entire time , making the last half hour of the film visually pathetic .  the scenes are poorly done , the dialogue is muffled , and the whole mess is utterly confusing beyond all belief .  sheen seems to adore this man , but why the viewers are never told .  the entire journey is supposed to be a prelude for a stunning entrance of this god-like kurtz , but the scenes fall way short of expectations .  granted , it has its moments , which are brutally horrific , but the general feeling is one of confusion .  brando mumbles his lines in a incoherent stir , and my feeling was that this could never be a great man , this could never be a man who inspires hundreds to follow him , so why do they do it ?  there are moments of brilliance , but the visual confusion dilutes the power of the scene .  there are too many questions left unanswered with the character of kurtz to have a satisfying ending .  the finest scene at the end is sheen's escape , and his entrace into the temple .  his rise out of the water , with the smoke coming off of his slicked head , is a brilliant 30 seconds of film .  yet , you cannot shake the feeling that there is so much more this film could have done .  the psychotic ride is unforgettable at times , and indeed the film on the whole is very good .  it is a stunningly flawed expression of film , for it addresses major issues , such as man's mental stamina during bouts of war .  but one still cannot shake the feeling that this film could have so much more powerful , had the character of kurtz been more explored , and had sheen truly succumbed to the fate that the viewer thought he was destined for .  there is too much good material in here not to be called a masterpiece , but it could have been so much more rewarding . 
neg@ there's a scene somewhere in this film where one of the characters reads the book " screenwriting made easy . "  this is funny the first time just 'cause it is , but funnier as the film goes on since it's totally ironic since the screenwriters of this inane film probably read it , outlined it and then wrote this film .  it's like they took the sub-genre of the disaster pic , which can be fun and hokey at the same time , and then forgot one of the greatest parts of them : the stupid , eccentric characters .  yes , " the poseidon adventure " is crap , but it's fun 'cause of all the stupid , eccentric characters .  and " earthquake , " my god !   " earthquake " has got to be one of the worst movies of all time , but at least they had the joke of having charlton heston sleeping with genevieve bujold .   " volcano " takes a semi-intriguing yet stupendously inane plot ( a volcano no one knew about suddenly errupts one fine morning and then erupts again later then stops . . . only  it's in , dare i say it ?  l . a ! ! ! ) and then puts no stupid , stereotypical , eccentric characters in it .  they're just stupid .  and the actors are all good ones .  tommy lee jones is great , an oscar winner , and a member of the men in black ( my vote for what should be the coolest movie of the summer ) .  anne heche is a good indy actress .  don cheadle stole the disappointing " devil in a blue dress " from denzel's feet .  and gaby's one of the few good teenage actors .  but they get nothing to do but act dumb and scream at what's going on .  they do their best , god bless them , but they're all lost in the fake magma ( only don cheadle gets an interesting part and he's the greatest part of the film ) .  there's no real suspense here 'cause you don't care about anyone .  i actually was rooting for gaby's character to get killed so tommy lee jones wouldn't have to keep saving her ( he did it like thirty times ! ) .  and there are no interesting sites in l . a . that we see get destroyed .  part of the fun of disaster films is watching sites get toppled or destroyed or whatever .  in " independence day , " the best part ( other than judd hirsch ) was watching the white house and empire state building get blown up by the aliens .  that was cool .  watching really fake-looking magma plow down the street is not .  okay , so the film's not devoid of merit .  as i already stated , don cheadle was great and the cast does their best .  and there's this really moronic scene which looks cool .  john carrol lynch ( norm from " fargo " ) goes on a subway car to save people but the lava comes and surrounds it .  he has one guy who's wounded and could make it .  he could throw the guy and jump and still survive .  but no ! ! !  he has to go and inanely jump and land right in the middle of the lava .  here's the cool sight : he melts .  here's the dumb part of it : he somehow manages to throw the man to safety as his legs are melting .  cool sight .  no logic .  but cool sight .  the volcano erupts twice and for some reason , the film ends there .  they aren't worried about it eruting again , they just go home to their toppled homes .  but to tell the truth , i was glad they didn't go on .  i was hoping the film was over after the first eruption ended .  my god , it was actually painful to sit through this little 102 minute long film .  i haven't seen " dante's peak " but i've heard it's a masterpiece compared to this .  if you want to see a cool disaster flick that's inane but interesting , rent " the towering inferno " with steve mcqueen , paul newman , and the schweppervescent o . j .  simpson ( he saves a cat ) .  if you want to waste your time watching a boring , stupid disaster flick ( literally , it almost grossed half of its budget ) , see this .  but i warned you . 
pos@ steve martin took an extended vacation from all facets of moviemaking a few years back ; he spent this time writing essays and short stories for " the new yorker , " several of which wound up in his hilarious hardback compilation , pure drivel ( 1998 ) .  much of the book spares tinseltown from mockery , although he does riff on the racist comments made by marlon brando during a larry king interview , in a fine chapter called " in search of the wily filipino . "  now , as writer and star of bowfinger , he offers the masses plenty of good reasons not to pursue a career in the cinema , perhaps finally venting the frustrations ( 'everything being made now is crap' ) that led to his brief retirement from hollywood .  martin stars as bobby bowfinger , a roger corman-wannabe on the cusp of fifty and desperate for some success as a producer , quality of the projects be damned .  his accountant ( adam alexi-malle ) proposes a movie called " chubby rain , " about aliens who travel to earth in raindrops slightly fatter than regular raindrops .  bowfinger latches onto the idea immediately , and convinces his troupe of actor friends to appear in the film , based on the lie that america's top box office draw , kit ramsey ( murphy ) , has agreed to star .  ramsey , of course , wants nothing to do with such low-grade material , so bowfinger , on the thinking that action stars need to run , not speak , decides to photograph the superstar surreptitiously .  he sends his cast members ( who aren't in on it , either ; they are told ramsey hates the sight of cameras and fraternizing with his co-stars ) to ramsey's table at restaurants , asks them to follow him in parking lots , etc . , spouting script dialogue , all the while shooting the outcome from a great distance .  the paranoid ramsey flees the scene nearly every time .  ramsey is a member of mind head , a cultish self-help organization apparently dedicated to recruiting celebrities .   ( as if that's not familiar enough , mind head guru terry stricter ( terence stamp ) has been dressed and combed to resemble l . ron hubbard , founder of scientology . )  when he goes to mind head with tales of caucasian strangers appearing from nowhere to babble " white code " in his face , they fear the nervous breakdown of an important client and rush him off to a retreat , requiring bowfinger to find a stand-in .  murphy will probably win more fans as jiff , ramsey's adorable , ignoramus double , than as kit , but it is his portrayal of the latter that took courage .  always surrounded by an entourage , suffering from a racial inferiority complex , murphy plays right into the tabloid image of himself .  furthermore , consider the enemies he'll make of popular scientologists .  pacing stricter's neutral-coloured office as if on an amphetamine binge and stripped of his bigshot veneer , ramsey is asked to shout inane personal affirmations repeatedly .  murphy's scenes with stamp are exactly what i imagine of a john travolta " clearing . "  not that murphy is entirely responsible for this schtick ; bowfinger is steve martin's invention .  his script is surprisingly clever as satire , given that the pseudo-religion is a sitting duck , as is the entire los angeles film industry .   ( the griffin mill-types take quite a beating , in the form of robert downey jr . as bigwig jerry renfro . )  martin's decision to tell the story from a bottom feeder's point of view is what keeps it fresh and innovative-never have we seen on screen a group of people struggle this hard to complete a motion picture .  as expected , there are laughs only to be had insiders or buffs , such as martin's crew of mexican border-jumpers , who gain unexpected appreciation for the classics from reading " cahiers du cinema , " or martin's nonsensical explanation to dave , his loyal cinematographer ( jamie kennedy ) , that every movie , in the end , has a budget of two-thousand dollars ( ! ) .  most of bowfinger is universally funny , however ; i defy any viewer to keep a straight face when christine baranski , one of our brightest comediennes , is on screen .  bowfinger's main flaw is a plot twist that has an insubstantial aftermath .  we're also asked to believe that a few simple close-ups of kit ramsey would redeem " chubby rain , " z-grade entertainment that would make ed wood blush .   ( this aspect of bowfinger has much in common with the ludicrous oscar sequence in oz's last directorial effort , the poorly conceived in & out . )  these are significant enough weaknesses that they distracted from my enjoyment of the piece .  as i mentioned at the start of this review , bowfinger offers solid reasons not to do what heather graham's character daisy does : hop a bus to hollywood in search of stardom .  that said , it offers one fantastic reason to get on that bus : the sense of community between filmmakers who gel is awesome .  martin gets sentimental by story's end as he did in l . a . story , and how could he not ?  for those who can hack it , the movies might be the greatest business in the world . 
neg@ apparantly money talks .   .   .  and uses quite a bit of obscenities doing so !  i've always considered myself pretty open about the gratuity a film can possess , whether in language , violence , sex , or what have you .  i find that this fact gives me a little more leverage to complain when a movie goes overboard , and money talks definitely does !  it's not so much that the movie swore nearly constantly ( and i mean constantly ! ) , but it swore so much that it seemed overly prominent and way too staged .  perhaps if one character were foul mouthed , but in this film , everybody swears nearly every other word .  money talks is about a black ticket scalper named franklin hatchett ( played less annoyingly than expected by chris tucker ) .  franklin is your typical con-man and ends up with more than one person out to get him .  when the plot finally gets underway , there's no less than three people ( or groups ) that want him , dead or alive .  the frenchman who's somewhat responsible for franklin's escape from a prisoner-packed bus , a hoodlum whom franklin owes seven grand , and the cops who wrongly suspect him of murder .  franklin's only hope : james russell ( charlie sheen ) , an investigative reporter for the local news who's out to prove himself a worthy journalist .  james offers to help clear franklin's name if franklin will just allow him an exclusive report to help channel 12 conquer sweeps week .  both of these elements are completely lost along the way however , and never do reappear .  as expected , the odd couple of franklin and james do wind up friends at the end , which is another wasted element seeing as how they show no signs of becoming friends at any point along the way .  there is just nothing original or intriguing about this film , and so many developments are either non-relevant , or just plain forgotten about .  money talks is a paint-by-numbers movie that lacks any real involvment with the audience .  frivilous dialogue , a predictable , flat storyline , and two-dimensional characters make money talks a reason to save your money . 
pos@ what do you get when you slap together a movie based on a story by the legendary george lucas , directed by virtuoso director steven spielberg , and starring one of the biggest box-office stars in the world , harrison ford ?  you get one hot-fudge-rockin' good time , that's what you get ! ! !  plot : professor/archeologist indiana jones sets out to find the long-lost mystical ark of the covenant before the nazis get their grubby fingers hands on it .  adventures , snakes , romance and mucho action ensues .  critique : astounding movie packed with non-stop action , stunts galore , an interesting story line , great one-liners , a solid cast , a catchy musical score , and all the fun and adventure that you could squeeze into a two-hour thrill ride .  if you don't enjoy this film , then you just don't like action movies , period !  if you're young , you'll enjoy its humor , its cool action sequences and its gross-out factor at times .  if you're a little older , you'll appreciate the interesting plot line , the romance , and yes , the mountains of adventure .  watching this movie made me feel like a kid again , dreaming and fantasizing about fighting the bad guys , travelling to different countries , making the impossible , possible !  harrison ford is perfect as the every-man with the brains of a scientist and the brawn of an outdoors adventurer , and spielberg manages to achieve the ideal balance of action , fun , adventure and humor .  now if you really want to have a good time , check into this movie on the same night as its two sequels , rent a jug of iced coke , truckloads of nachos and salsa , an adventure hat and whip , and prepare to gag yourself into a world of action-movie heaven !  little known facts about this film and its stars : this picture was nominated for eight 1981 oscar nominations , including best picture .  it lost that award to chariots of fire , but did manage to win for best art direction , best special effects , best film editing and best sound .  actor tom selleck was originally cast as indiana jones , but was committed to his hit tv show , " magnum p . i . " .  in filming the well of souls sequence , the producers scoured every pet shop in london and the south of england for every snake they could lay their hands on .  hence there are snakes that are identifiable from many different geographical areas .  however , once all the snakes were on set , it became clear that there were not nearly enough of them , so spielberg had several hoses cut into lengths , and these were used as well .  looking closely , you can tell which are the real snakes and which are not .  an early draft of the script had indy travelling to shanghai to recover a piece of the staff of ra .  during his escape from the museum where it was housed , he sheltered from machine gun fire behind a giant rolling gong .  also in the same script , indy and marion flee the chaos caused by the opening of the ark in a wild mine-cart chase sequence .  both of these scenes were cut from the script , but ended up in 1984's indiana jones and the temple of doom .  this film begins with a shot of a peak in the jungle which is reminiscent of the paramount pictures logo .  the same type of opening is present in its sequels .  jock's airplane at the beginning of the film has the registration number " ob-cpo " .  this is a reference to obi-wan and c-3po from george lucas' star wars ( 9 . 5/10 ) .  also , the hieroglyphics in the well of souls include engravings of r2-d2 and c-3po .  they can be seen on a post to the right of indy and sallah as they remove the ark .  the script originally included a long fight between a swordsman and indiana with his whip .  as legend has it , actor harrison ford was suffering diarrhea at the time , and asked if the scene could be shortened .  spielberg said the only way he could shorten it was if indy pulled out his gun and just shot the guy .  the entire crew laughed and that's how it was filmed .  when indy first falls in the well of souls and is face to face with the cobra , you can see the snake's reflection on the glass dividing it and harrison ford , also some fingerprints and stuff like that .  when indy is dragging along the ground , hanging onto the nazi soldier's truck with the ark inside , you can see the pad that he's being dragged on . 
neg@ we're back in blade runner territory with this one , conceptual artist robert longo's vision of a william gibson-inspired future where information is the commodity to kill for .  front and center is johnny ( keanu reeves ) , a " cyber-courier " who smuggles data via a " wet-wired " implant .  he's ready to quit the biz and get a portion of his long-term memory restored , but , first , he has to finish one last , dangerous job . .  the pressing problem in johnny mnemonic is that keanu reeves seems to have forgotten how to play an action hero since his stint on speed .  he's walking wood in a forest of stiffs that includes henry rollins , ice-t , and dina meyer .   ( dolph lundgren's street preacher is in an acting category all its own .   : - ) without a believable performance between them , all we can do is sit back and watch the atmosphere , which is pretty good in places .  the vr sequences are way cool , but the physical fx--such as miniatures and mattes--leave a lot to be desired .  watch out for those bad blue-screens !  we wouldn't mind a minute of johnny mnemonic if the action played better .  too bad the debut director isn't very strong in this de- partment .  his big finale is a sloppy , silly mess that runs twenty minutes too long , which is way past the time that most of our " wet- wired " processors have already shut down .  bottom line : yatf ( yet another tortured future ) .  skip it . 
pos@ `oh behave !  felicity shagwell is one shagadellic babe .  do i make your horny ?  female fembots with breasts that require gun controlling .  anything that resembles bananas and two balls of icecream .  the nut-biting finale between mini me and austin .  all that body hair is a real turn on , it's a pity more leading men don't wear it on screen .  anything that vaguely resembles sausages and eggs .  fat bastard .  the love scene between felicity and fat bastard , that redefines sex .  the wrongly implied love scene in the tent that redefines anal sex .  the love scene between austin and ivana humpalot , that redefines chess and oral sex .  the love scene between dr . evil and frau farbissina , that redefines weird sex .  the love affair between austin and felicity , that does not happen , because his mojo goes missing .  the relationship between dr evil , himself and mini me which redefines a solo love affair .  the unique relationship between dr evil and his son scott www . com . zip , that says a lot about our relationship with our children nowadays .  weanies , johnny , richard , dick etc . '  this movie is every bit as silly and crazy as the first .  there are moments that will make your sick , which are probably best forgotten , but overall mike myers has redefined what it means to be an international spy and leading man . 
neg@ woody allen is one of the most successful artist-directors in hollywood , but he is becoming less and less reliable as a filmmaker .  in his early years of film-making he mastered the simple comedy .  from there he went into a second phase and took risks experimenting with different approaches and styles .  some of these work better than others .  zelig and crimes and misdemeanors are the work of a creative and intelligent artist .  deconstructing harry goes to the other extreme and is a bizarre experiment demanding more of the viewer than it gives back .  harry block ( allen ) has in his life only two drives .  he wants to have sex with as many women as possible and when he makes a mess of his life and those of his lovers he wants to retreat into his writing .  the story of this static and highly unsympathetic character is told with a number of often clumsy stylistic experiments .  perhaps the most irritating device is to express the disjointedness of harry's life by editing harry's scenes putting in cuts in the middle as if to show missing time with something edited out .  as a writer , harry puts his friends into his books in the thinnest of disguises .  the film dramatizes incidents from these supposed books and cuts between his real story line and fragments from harry's books with different actors playing the real and fictional people in harry's life .  these fragments are frustrating in their lack of completion , but even more frustrating is the bringing of the characters out of the fragments into scenes with the real characters .  it is up to the viewer to keep track not just who is fictional and who is real but also to keep straight who is the fictional doppelganger of which real person .  if that sounds complicated , it is .  then as another device in one of the stories , an actor seems to have the peculiar property that he has gone out of focus and can only be seen in blurry image .  harry sees this as a metaphor for his own condition and himself goes blurry for a short time .  as if these touches did not create sufficient confusion , the story is told out of chronological order .  if allen were giving the audience a story that was worth decoding , any and all of these stylistic touches could be excusable .  but allen puts the audience through all of this to give us a portrait of harry block who is a selfish manipulator who is not worth the effort to understand .  deconstructing harry is set at a time when harry's old college , the one that expelled him when he attended it , wants now to honor him for a lifetime of writing achievement .  harry is searching among his friends to find one who will go with him .  just why someone who is so unwilling to commit to a relationship with anyone suddenly needs the support of someone else is unclear .  harry tries his current girl friend fay ( elizabeth shue ) only to find that she is about to marry harry's old friend larry ( billy crystal ) .  block would like his son hilly ( eric lloyd ) to accompany him , but hilly's mother , previously first harry's psychiatrist and more recently his wife , refuses to let her son see his father .  another friend richard ( bob balaban ) would go but has health problems .  harry also considers bringing a prostitute cookie ( hazel goodman ) .  it is interesting that allen should introduce another likable prostitute so soon after mighty aphrodite , but cookie is considerably different--black and a lot brighter than mira sorvino's character in the previous film .  while the comedy sequences are never complete , a few are elaborate and some quite funny .  the centerpiece of the film is a journey into hell with allen playing a sort of orpheus rescuing fay from the clutches of the devil , who looks a lot like larry .  that story also is left uncompleted , perhaps to show harry's unwillingness to commit even to telling a story .  the linchpin that was needed to tie together the stylistic quirks of this film was a central character who changes and who gives us something about which to care .  that character is patently not the one allen creates in harry block and not the characters around harry as seen through his acerbic eyes .  allen can do much better than deconstructing harry .  i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale and a -1 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
pos@  " six days , seven nights " is a summer movie that gets the summer movie experience deliciously right , a commendable achievement considering the season thus far has been littered with some pretty uneven fare .  here's a genuinely fun fluff piece that knows it's fluff , recognizes it's fluff and is admittedly proud to be fluff .  of course , the casting of harrison ford in the broadly comedic lead role plays a sizeable part in the movie's success ; ford is such a concentrated dramatic actor that it's easy to forget what a funny guy he can be .  as his female counterpart , anne heche also deserves a big pat on the back for her sweet , goofily charismatic performance .  the age difference ( ford's 56 , heche's 29 ) matters not -- these two click in a charged way that's hard to come by .  the story is a no-brainer -- ford stars as gruff but loveable island aviator quinn harris , while heche is career-minded but loveable new york magazine editor robin monroe .  robin , on a tropical vacation with fianc ? frank ( david schwimmer ) , gets assigned to supervise an emergency photo shoot in nearby tahiti , so she reluctantly hires quinn to fly her there .  the plane crashes during a terrible storm , and they immediately find themselves stuck in a deserted paradise with few ideas on getting back to civilization .  a series of unpleasant , often hilarious catastrophes leaves little choice but for both members of this unlikely odd couple to fall for each other .  meanwhile , back at the resort , frank is tempted himself by quinn's shapely female tagalong ( jacqueline obradors ) .  that subplot obviously exists to get us rooting for the quinn-robin pairing , and while it makes for a few good laughs early on , it eventually becomes a contrived distraction from the far more engrossing misadventures of quinn and robin .  and since the film spends most of its time with the castaways , this flaw is only a minor inconvenience .  director ivan reitman keeps the pace brisk .  at a slim 101 minutes , " six days , seven nights " never wears out its welcome , where a lesser film could have felt like it was as long as its title .  michael browning's clever screenplay allows for plenty of notable one-liners ( my favorite , taken in context , is " you mean _arrrgh_ pirates ? " ) , and though it essentially boils down to one mishap after another , they're all quite engaging .  even the movie's more " serious " moments are played with a wink .  heche has been under undeserved fire over whether or not her private life with ellen degeneres would affect the " believability " of " six days , seven nights " ' heterosexual pairing .   ( so she's a lesbian .  so what .  deal with it . )  of course it doesn't , and here , her naysayers are proved wrong in a big way .  in fact , her chemistry with ford is what really makes the film click ; these opposites attract with the utmost , endearing electricity .  at one point , when the two are discussing the likelihood of romantic interest , heche asks ford how old he is .  after several wrong guesses ( " forty-five ?  _fifty_ ? " ) , he whispers his age to her .   " you still look good , " heche stammers .   " i still _am_ good , " ford replies .  she's good too , and together , they make " six days , seven nights " one memorable ride . 
neg@  " saving silverman " is a good example of a good comedy gone bad .  as a love story it is good , however as a comedy it falls flat on it's face .  i think throughout the short 90 minutes i laughed a total of seven times . . . and  those were just chuckles at the most !  the movie doesn't have the oomph to make it a great movie , and doesn't have the script to make it a funny movie .  wayne lefessier ( steven zahn ) , j . d . mcnugent ( jack black ) , and darren silverman ( jason biggs ) have grown up all their lives together , they have been best friends forever and vow to stay close till the end .  while in a bar after doing a show with their band , based on their love of neil diamond , darren meets a young woman named judith ( amanda peet ) whom he instantly falls for .  wayne and j . d . however think differently and when judith tells darren that he can never see his friends again , it's up to wayne and j . d . to try and begin saving silverman .  the performances are topnotch and surprisingly , they are what keep the movie afloat .  jason biggs right off the flop " loser " does an ok job playing silverman , but he is stale and flat at times .  steve zahn is perfect in the role of wayne lefessier , and even though the movie is about silverman , lefessier is really the main character and the narrator of the movie itself .  jack black is well jack black , and he does an all right job as j . d . but he isn't as funny as he has been in the past .  amanda peet plays the ultimate bitch as judith , and neil diamond plays neil diamond ( he's better at singing than acting ) .  anyway the performances in the film are good , but it's too bad the script isn't .  speaking of script , hank nelkan's choppy script is not only badly written , but not funny enough even for an episode of sesame street .  the trailer for the movie , as with most movies gives away everything that happens in the movie , especially the funniest parts .  somewhere " saving silverman " was meant to be a good movie , and it could have been , but alas in the end it wasn't .  dennis dugan's direction is all right , he adds a few directorial touches here and there , nothing special being a simple comedy .   " saving silverman " is a perfectly bad movie in more ways than one .  it has a great cast , a good director and a sweet story . . . it's  just too bad it has a bad script and is all together a bad movie . 
pos@ curdled is a deliciously dark and witty black comedy , but its humour won't appeal to everyone .  to be specific , let me give you an example .  do you know in pulp fiction where jules and vincent go on brain detail after marvin and his head accidentally get separated ?  if you thought that was completely tasteless and unfunny , don't see curdled .  on the other hand , if you found that sequence to be pretty funny , you have the sense of humour that curdled is aimed at .  our film's heroine , gabriela , played by angela jones , is a woman obssessively curious about murder and serial killers ; she even keeps a scrapbook of news articles .  luckily for her , miami is being plagued by a serial killer rampage - her scrapbook is getting pretty big .  the killer's nickname in the press is the blue blood killer , because he preys on older rich socialite women , and he's played by william baldwin ( this is not a spoiler ) .  one particularly striking m . o .  on the blue blood killer is his propensity to decapitate his victims .  gabriela is watching television one day when she spots an advertisement for a firm whose line of work is perfectly attuned to her interests .  she immediately quits her job , and signs on with pfcs , which stands for post-forensic cleaning service .  no points for guessing what they do .  her workmates are confused by gabriela's fascination with murder ; to them , it's just a day job .  there's a hilarious locker room scene where they debate whether decapitated heads can talk , and what they would say .  gabriela's partner , elena , played by mel gorham , is particularly perturbed by gabriela's wide-eyed fascination , and becomes really upset when gabriela volunteers them to clean up the blue blood killer's latest scene - they're the messiest , you see .  unbeknownst to them , the last victim left something on the scene which would id the blue blood killer , so he's also heading over there . .  the comparison to pulp fiction earlier on was not accidental - quentin tarantino executive-produced this film , which began life as a short film he saw at a film festival .  apparently tarantino was so impressed that he helped braddock convert this into a feature-length film .  there are other parallels - the star of curdled is angela jones ( the top billing goes to william baldwin , but really , jones is the central character ) , who's probably best known for her role as esmerelda villalobos , the death-obssessed taxi driver in pulp fiction .  that role was written specifically for jones based upon her similar character in the aforementioned short film , curdled jr .  jones is great in curdled - she's wonderfully funny and maintains an amusing wide-eyed naive curiousity about murder without compromising her character's innocence or likeability .  she can express so much with one lift of her eyebrow .  it's a great performance .  reb braddock's direction is extremely sharp and clever , toeing the line between black humour and bad taste .  the best scene in the film is an outrageously funny sequence involves jones and dancing - any more than that would be a spoiler .  the opening credit sequence is also inventive and amusing .  of course , it's impossible to really take this stuff seriously , but then again you're not really supposed to - braddock knows the audience is in on the joke , and makes it a fun little romp as a result .  the one drawback of curdled is that it was based on a short film , and it feels like it ; the material is just stretched too thin in order to fulfill a feature length running time , and some parts just seem to drag .  while its running time is already a short 94 minutes , it could really stand to lose twenty minutes or so to give it better pacing .  curdled seems destined to be a nice cult film for miramax .  it'll be interesting to see if it will appeal to mainstream audiences as well . 
neg@ this talky , terribly-plotted thriller stars alec baldwin as dave robicheaux , an ex-new orleans cop who gets ensnared in a murder- mystery after a light-plane crashes into the bayou beside his fishing boat .  he and his wife annie ( kelly lynch ) rescue a little salvadorian girl ( samantha lagpacan ) from the wreckage and that's when the trouble begins .  the other major players include a local drug lord ( eric roberts ) , his scheming wife ( teri hatcher ) , a soused stripper ( mary stuart masterson ) , and a shady dea agent ( vondie curtis hall ) .  everyone knows everyone else and it makes for a collective that's curious but never compelling .  based on the book by james lee burke , heaven's prisoners is so badly plotted that entire * scenes * seem to be missing .  early on , we have no idea of why dave and annie keep the child to themselves .  nor how they eluded both the coast guard and the faa .  later , dave is reunited with a drug-abuser who appears seemingly clean and sober and without any explanation .  huh ?  the whole movie is like this , perhaps the result of some unkind cuts that happened during the eighteen months that the film sat on the shelf .  whatever the reason , somebody should tell director phil joanou ( final analysis ) to recut this mess .  in its present form , heaven's prisoners runs only two hours plus change , but it feels like four . 
pos@ jonathan demme's _beloved_ , based on the book toni morrison , is a study in skillful literary adaptation .  on the one hand , the film manages to recreate key moments from the novel , evoking morrison's pragmatic narrative style without using her authorial voice .  on the other hand , beloved omits the some of the finer details of the book , favoring an ambiguously defined back story upon which to build the story's main events .  this choice is a smartly made one , for it creates an open space in which the story's wide range of emotions can gestate and grow .  indeed , the impact of the film is so protracted that much of it cannot be felt until long after the end credits have rolled .  _beloved_ takes place in the second half of the 19th century , during the so-called reconstruction era after the civil war .  for newly-freed slaves , it is a time of confusion and turmoil .  oprah winfrey is sethe , a slave who escaped a kentucky plantation and took her children to an ohio farmhouse , where she hoped the terror would end .  what she did not know was that it would follow her there , and remain with her long after the physical threat had vanished .  _beloved_ ultimately tells the story of sethe's search for forgiveness , one long-hampered by an unforgettable sin .  the film starts off on a dreary day ten years after sethe's escape , as a violent , unseen energy rocks her dilapidated farmhouse .  invisible hands terrorize her family , flinging objects across rooms , shaking tables , rattling floorboards .  sethe's sons run away , perhaps for good , leaving sethe and her daughter denver to fend for themselves .  demme's matter-of-fact handling of this supernatural element is just one of _beloved_'s intriguing aspects .  all of the characters take for granted that ghosts are real .  when paul d ( danny glover ) -- a former slave who escaped kentucky along with sethe -- arrives at the house eight years later and is confronted with the ghost's hellish visions , he doesn't run in terror .  instead , he asks who the ghost is .  as in morrison's novel , demme quickly establishes that the horror of the story will not come from the fact of the ghost itself , but from the terrifying past in which the ghost was created .  sethe is the one being haunted , but the ghost in the house is the least of her fears .  in fact , the ghost is one of the reasons she chooses to stay .  the story takes an bizarre turn with the appearance of beloved ( thandie newton ) , a young black-clad woman who appears on sethe's front lawn , leaned christ-like against a tree stump .  sethe and denver immediately take to the rasping woman and try to nurse her to health .  they know not who she is , but that doesn't matter .  only paul d is suspicious of the stranger .  little does the family know that beloved will bring about many changes , and force sethe to release a guilt she has held onto so urgently for eighteen years .  winfrey is arguably beloved's greatest asset .  she inhabits the role of sethe so convincingly it is hard to believe this is the same woman who shines brightly on a tv talk show .  lisa gay hamilton does an impressive job in the emotionally demanding role as the younger sethe , whose appalling actions make her the disturbed woman we see eighteen years later .  danny glover is affable as the sympathetic paul d , as is kimberly elise as denver , sethe's wanderlusting daughter .  as sethe's sage-like mother-in-law old baby suggs , beah richards authoritatively commands every scene in which she appears .  the film's least palatable choice of casting is unfortunately that of the role of beloved herself .  thandie newton plays the glassy-eyed girl with a demented fervor which is endearing at first , but which becomes off-putting and unintentionally laughable by the end .  departing from the honed aesthetic he used in such films as _the silence of the lambs_ and _melvin & howard_ , director demme has used a bit of dramatic overstatement to get across the vivid descriptions in morrison's novel .  totemic camera shots and color-saturated scenery are decidedly uncommon in demme's films , but the few he uses here work to the film's benefit .  _beloved_'s most memorable scenes are those of baby suggs' gatherings in a forest clearing , where the bright yellow-greens of nature entrance the viewer as much as suggs' words do .  for the most part , though , demme maintains his trademark directorial neutrality .  this , combined with morrison's equally frugal method of storytelling , may make _beloved_ somewhat of a challenge to watch , even to those familiar with the book .  though the film compliments the book extraordinarily well , it falls short in allowing the sort of accessibility one usually expects from a film .  nothing is spoon-fed to the viewer .  morrison's novel is just as enigmatic , but unlike a movie , a book can be put down to allow the various undercurrents and themes to churn and absorb .  the movie begins like _poltergeist_ , and ends like _the color purple_ , with shades of _the scarlet letter_ and _little women_ somewhere in the middle .  taken as a whole , beloved is a disquieting , one-of-a-kind experience , one to be viewed with guards down and spirits in abeyance . 
neg@ star wars : ? episode i -- the phantom menace ( 1999 )  director : george lucas cast : liam neeson , ewan mcgregor , natalie portman , jake lloyd , ian mcdiarmid , samuel l . jackson , oliver ford davies , terence stamp , pernilla august , frank oz , ahmed best , kenny baker , anthony daniels screenplay : george lucas producers : rick mccallum runtime : 131 min .  us distribution : 20th century fox rated pg : mild violence , thematic elements  copyright 1999 nathaniel r . atcheson  a fellow critic once stated his belief that a reviewer should not speak of himself in his own review .  i've attempted to obey this rule in recent months , but to do so would be impossible in this case .  the fact is , nearly every person who goes to see the phantom menace brings baggage in with them .  the original star wars trilogy means so much to so many people .  for me , they calibrated my creativity as a child ; they are masterful , original works of art that mix moving stories with what were astonishing special effects at the time ( and they still hold up pretty darn well ) .  i am too young to have seen star wars in the theater during its original release , but that doesn't make me any less dedicated to it .  on the contrary , the star wars trilogy -- and the empire strikes back in particular -- are three items on a very short list of why i love movies .  when i heard that george lucas would be making the first trilogy in the nine-film series , i got exited .  when i first saw screenshots from the film , well over a year ago , i embarked on a year-long drool of anticipation .  and when the first previews were released last thanksgiving , i was ready to see the film .  but then there was the hype , the insane marketing campaign , and lucasfilm's secretive snobbery over the picture .  in the last weeks before the picture opened , while multitudes of fans waited outside of theaters and stood in the boiling sun days in advance just to be the first ones in the theater , i was tired of hearing about it .  i was tired of seeing cardboard cut-outs of the characters whenever i went to kfc or taco bell .  i just wanted to see the movie .  reader , do not misunderstand .  i did not have an anti-hype reaction .  the hype was unavoidable .  i understand and accept the hype -- it's just what happens when the prequel to the most widely beloved films of all time get released .  five minutes into the phantom menace , i knew there was a problem .   " who are these jedi knights ? "  i asked .   " why are they churning out stale dialogue with machine-gun rapidity ? "   " why aren't these characters being developed before their adventures ? "   " why is there a special effects shot in nearly every frame of the entire film ? "  these were just some of my questions early on .  later , i asked , " where's the magic of the first three films ? "  and " why am i looking at my watch every fifteen minutes ? '  by the end of the film , i was tired , maddened , and depressed .  george lucas has funneled his own wonderful movies into a pointless , mindless , summer blockbuster .  the phantom menace is no star wars film .  take away the title and the jedi talk and the force , and you're left with what is easily one of the most vacuous special effects movies of all time .  it's an embarrassment .  i looked desperately for a scene in which a character is explored , or a new theme is examined , or a special effects shot isn't used .  there are a few of each , but they're all token attempts .  the fact is , george lucas has created what is simultaneously an abysmally bad excuse for a movie and a pretty good showcase for digital effects .  this is not what i wanted to see .  i didn't want to leave the phantom menace with a headache and a bitter taste in my mouth , but i did .  the story centers mostly around qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson , looking lost and confused ) and his apprentice , obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor , who scarcely has a line in the film ) and their attempts to liberate the people of the planet naboo .  naboo is the victim of a bureaucratic war with the trade federation ; their contact on naboo is queen amidala ( natalie portman ) , the teenage ruler who truly cares for her people .  after picking up jar jar binks ( a completely cgi character , voiced by ahmed best ) , they head to tatooine , where they meet young anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) and his mother ( pernilla august ) .  qui-gon knows that the force is strong with young anakin , and so the jedi knights take the boy with them on their journeys .  the bad guys are darth maul and darth sidious , neither of whom have enough lines to register as characters .  there isn't anything particularly wrong with this story when looking at it in synopsis form .  the way lucas has handled it , however , it unsatisfactory .  first of all , we don't learn one single thing about qui-gon jinn .  not one thing .  what was his life like before this film ?  well , i imagine he didn't have one .  that's why he feels like a plot device .  this probably explains why neeson looks so hopeless in the role , and why he's recently retired from film ( i don't blame him , honestly ) .  obi-wan , a character i was really looking forward to learning more about , is even less interesting .  mcgregor has just a few lines , so anyone hoping to see the engaging young actor in a great performance is urged to look elsewhere .  since these two men are the focus of the phantom menace , lucas has served us a big emotional void as the centerpiece of his movie .  things start to pick up when our characters reach tatooine ; young anakin is perhaps the only truly fleshed-out character in the film , and lloyd does a thoughtful job with the role .  i was also hugely impressed with the sand speeder scene ; rarely is an action sequence so fast and so exciting .  and when anakin says goodbye to his mother , i found it moving .  also fairly good is portman , and she manages to give a little depth to a character where no depth has been written .  jar jar binks is one of the most annoying characters i've ever had to endure , but he's more interesting than most of the humans .  as soon as the relatively-brief segment on tatooine is over , it's back to the mind-numbing special effects and depthless action scenes .  i've seen many movies that qualify as " special effects extravaganzas , " but the phantom menace is the first one i've seen that had me sick of the special effects fifteen minutes into the movie .  the reason is obvious : george lucas has no restraint .  i can't say that i didn't find the effects original , because i did -- the final battle between darth maul , obi-wan , and qui-gon is visually exceptional , as is most of the film .  but i also found the effects deadening and tiresome .  my breaking point was near the end of the picture , as anakin is getting questioned by yoda and the other jedi masters ; in the background , we see hundreds of digital spaceships flying around through a digital sky , and i wanted that to go away .  can't we have one stinking scene that isn't bursting at the seems with a special effects shot ?  i got so sick of looking at the cgi characters and spaceships and planets and backgrounds that i really just wanted to go outside and look at a physical landscape for a few hours .  and then there's the question of magic .  what was lost in the sixteen years between the phantom menace and return of the jedi ?  i have a feeling that lucas was so focused on how his movie looked that he forgot entirely the way it should feel .  john williams' familiar score is no help , nor is lucas' direction .  i think it comes right down to characters : there are none here .  i longed for the magnetic presence of han , luke , and leia , but i got no such thing .  and what about the ridiculous expectations ?  mine weren't that high ; i simply wanted a film that showed me the roots of the films that i grew up loving , a story that had a few characters and a few great special effects .  instead , i got two hours and fifteen minutes of a lifeless and imaginative computer graphics show .  i don't hate the phantom menace as much as i resent it : i'd like to forget that it exists , and yet i can't .  it's here to stay .  i can only hope that episodes ii and iii have something of substance in them , because if they don't , then lucas will have pulled off the impossible task of destroying his own indestructible series . 
pos@  " living out loud , " is the type of motion picture we don't often see : it is a film about mature , intelligent adults , instead of the usual american film , in which children basically dress up in grown-up clothing and parade around acting like immature seven-year-olds .  judith ( holly hunter ) , a fortysomething living in new york city , has been having a difficult time with life lately .  she is extremely depressed about her recent divorce to her husband ( martin donovan ) , who had been cheating on her .  she cannot sleep , haunted by terrible memories , often imagines off-the-wall things to try and make the world seem like a better place , and the only place she can really go to feel happy is to hear one of her favorite singers , liz bailey ( queen latifah ) , perform at a local club .  judith's life does start to brighten a little when , one night when she gets home to her apartment late , strikes up a conversation with the elevator operator , pat ( danny devito ) , a lonely man in his fifties whom has lost his daughter recently .  both of them create a sort of emotional connection with each other , seeking comfort with the other person , but while pat starts to form a deep love for her , judith only wants to remain friends .   " living out loud , " which was written by richard lagravenese ( " the bridges of madison county " ) , who is also making his directing debut here , is a wonderful film from beginning to end , one that is honest , genuinely funny , and poignant .  the three central characters , that of judith , pat , and liz , are all written to be free-thinking , complex human beings , and are all likable , but flawed , people who are constantly interesting , as is the film itself .  one highly original element of the film is that judith occasionally imagines things occuring in her mind in the way she wishes they would happen .  sometimes it results in comedy , and sometimes it turns out to be subtle and truly touching .  one sequence that stands out is when judith is at a restaurant by herself , reading a novel .  an older woman comes over to her , mentions that that is a great book she is reading , and then goes over to join her own friends .  as the woman sits down , she looks over to see judith by herself , and motions for her to come join them .  instantly , we realize this was simply in judith's mind , as we see the same woman just sit down at the table and begin talking to her friends .  holly hunter and danny devito both give the performances of their careers here .  hunter , of course , was brilliant in 1993's " the piano , " for which she won an academy award , but in this film she is even better , i think .  she finds the right note for each scene and holds it .  and devito has never had such a humanistic role before , which i was surprised about .  usually he is used as the butt of a joke , or as a caricature , but in this film , has a living-and-breathing , sympathetic person to play .  topping it all off is latifah , also a singer , who is quickly turning into a respectable actress herself , and has a juicy , natural supporting role as , in some ways , judith's role model .  another joy of the film is that it does not somehow form a contrived , " happy " ending , but , in staying with its realistic tone , manages to be upbeat , but truthful .  the last shot is an especially powerful image .  nothing is said , but just the image of someone walking down a sidewalk says it all .  the relationship that results between judith and pat is true-to-life and sincere .  as we watch these two people talk , and get to know each other , all that we wish for them both is to be happy , even if that does not include for them to become romantically involved .  and as , " living out loud , " which is one of the best films of the year , proves , sometimes a friendship is the strongest bond anyone could possibly ask for . 
neg@ what are the warning signs of a * terrible * movie ?  making it's debut at the dollar theater ?  locally , chairman of the board did just that .  having the annoying prop comic scott thompson ( better known as carrot top ) in the lead role ?  chairman of the board , once again .  how about an overly exhausted , paper thin plot approached with utter incompetence ?  did somebody say chairman of the board ?  that's right , carrot top's long dreaded major motion picture debut ( at least for a starring role ) is poking up in a handful of theaters across the country .  chairman of the board stars the obnoxious , wannabe-zany king of redheaded standup comics as a lazy but creative , inventive but uneventful generation x- er named edison .  living with a pair of surfer dudes in a small , rented house , edison bounces from job to job , always squandering away the money on his eccentric ( to say the least ) inventions and ignoring crucial responsibilities such as rent .  this has the crabby landlady , ms . krubavitch ( estelle harris , best known as george constanza's mother on " seinfeld " ) , threatening an eviction if past due expenses aren't furnished post haste .  as luck would have it , edison soon meets armand mcmillan ( jack warden ) , an old surfer dude who just so happens to be president of the multi-million dollar mcmillan industries .  sharing a passion for more than just riding waves , armand is deeply impacted by the young inventor's notebook of dreams and ideas , and when the old man dies soon afterward , edison learns he is named a benefactor in armand's will .  predictably , edison acquires the entire corporation and has to maintain productivity with absolutely no knowledge of the business world .  predictably , there is a bitter nephew ( larry miller ) whose lesser inheritance fuels resentment that will lead to an elaborate sabotage plot .  predictably , there is an attractive employee ( courtney thorne-smith ) whose initial repulsion will transform into love for our doofy protagonist .  predictably , the man who knows nothing will fight against the odds and give the company it's most profitable and successful turnaround ever , all because he ran things by common sense and not greed .  it's as though writers turi meyer , al septien , and alex zamm ( meyer and septien also wrote leprechaun 2 together ! )  pulled a plot out of a hat and worked carrot top into it .  the jokes , the " surprises " , the developments - all of them run such a predictable path , it may only be carrot top's signature brazen red hairdo that sets this one apart from the myriad of similar films .  a movie this bad speaks for itself .  what's left to say when every element the movie possesses is a shameful retread of movies past ?  the script is 100% recycled , the direction is hokey , and the acting is absolutely horrible .  it is only thorne-smith who seems to take her job seriously , an accomplishment which surely deserves the medal of honor .  she certainly went beyond the call of duty - she has to kiss carrot top ! ! ! ! ! !   ( barf bag , please ! )  movies like this give the audience nothing to do but ponder just how many synonyms for " bad " there really are .  chairman of the board , without a doubt , deserves each and every one .  the only way this won't end up on everybody's " bottom ten of the year " list , is if they were lucky enough never to have seen it .  just because you can't miss his outlandish fiery mane , don't skimp on avoiding this abhorrent feature . 
pos@ once upon a time a solitary ogre named shrek ( mike myers ) was really annoyed to discover that his swamp had been invaded by three blind mice , seven dwarves and all the other fairy tale characters in the land , banished from their home by lord farquaad ( john lithgow ) .  unwittingly befriended by a non-stop talking donkey ( eddie murphy ) , shrek travels to dulloc to speak with farquaad , where he stumbles into a joust and comes up the winner .  his prize ?  to save princess fiona ( cameron diaz ) from a tower surrounded by molten flame and protected by a dragon so she can become farquaad's bride .  the ogre agrees to the task in return for getting his solitary lifestyle back in " shrek . "  it took four writers ( ted elliott and terry rossio ( " the road to el dorado " ) , roger s . h .  schulman ( " balto " ) and joe stillman ( " beavis and butthead do america " ) ) to adapt william steig's children's book .  the bad news ?  they've genericized an already simple plotline while heavily under the influence of william goldman's " the princess bride . "  the good news ?  there's so much wacky humor culled from both fairy tales and popular culture that this movie should keep you in stitches .  we get our first inkling that we're in for a real treat as one of farquaad's men , intent on rounding up magical creatures offers 'five schillings for the possessed boy ! ' after observing dreamworks' rendition of disney's animated pinocchio .  meanwhile within the castle walls , a gingerbread man being tortured  by farquaad spits icing and yells 'eat me ! '  before breaking down and solemnly asking 'do you know the muffin man ? '  shrek , a green giant with bobbly antennae-like ears , is a grumpy recluse who really yearns to fit in ( although who could put up with his habit of making candles from his own ear wax ? ) .  donkey is a hyperactive , endearingly stunted creature who can talk and , therefore , believes will make a great misfit pairing with the uncooperative shrek .  donkey proves his worth sweet talking the princess-guarding dragon .  the princess proves to be more than a shade offbeat after learning she's not getting the fairy tale issue rescue she's been expecting .  when fiona's true colors are exposed ( including opportunies for some tomboyish gross out humor ) , a spark develops between her and shrek .  the script's details are gleefully impish , constantly poking fun at disney from the theme park world of farquaad's dulloc with its turnstyle entrance and 'it's a small world' parody of an information booth to the blue bird which meets a most un-disneyish fate after duetting with fiona 'snow white' style .  popular culture is represented with film references to " babe " and " charlies' angels " via " the matrix . "  myers chooses his 'so i married an axe murderer' scottish brogue for shrek in order to give his voice some heft .  while this may prove distracting for anyone familiar with that film , overall it works more than not .  eddie murphy steals the show as the fast-talking , motown-singing donkey , proving once again his talent as a vocal performer ( is it another wink at disney that donkey is paired with a dragon , a creature murphy portrayed in disney's 'mulan ? ' ) .  lithgow's a good choice for the supercilious , height-challenged villain lord farquaad .  diaz is energetic but ultimately nondescript voicing princess fiona .   ( a better choice would have been minnie driver , who's proven herself a terrific vocal talent in such diverse animations as disney's " tarzan , " " princess mononoke " and the " south park " movie . )  the computer animation looks terrific ( particularly donkey ) , although it won't elicit the types of oohs and aahs of pixar's work ( " toy story , " " a bug's life , " " toy story 2 " ) .  in keeping with its hip style , pop music is used , which like myer's voice may be initially jarring , but ultimately satisfies ( while surveying bridal candidates via a 'dating game' parody broadcast by snow white's evil queen's mirror , farquaad is told 'fiona likes pina coladas' - cue jimmy buffet ! ) .   " shrek " has good lessons for kids and humor targetted at every age group in the family .  while it may be derivative of the 1987's " the princess bride , " " shrek " addresses a new generation with similar sensibilities and doesn't suffer in the comparison . 
neg@ the yet-to-be-released krippendorf's tribe is being marketed as a family comedy , but buyer beware .  this movie can't make up its mind .  is it a family comedy with vulgar references to both the male and female bodies , menstruation , circumcision , and sex that would make any parents squirm at the thought of having their child next to them ?  or is it an adult comedy approached with such immaturity that only adolescents will appreciate the effort ?  either way , " unbalanced " is the word to stamp on this hit and miss and miss and miss effort .  the premise is catchy - widowed anthropology professor james krippendorf ( richard dreyfuss ) has spent the past two years " getting over " the death of his wife , neglecting key research and squandering grant money on personal living expenses .  now it's time to show what he's achieved in those two years , and he has absolutely nothing to show for it .  with a fabricated tale of studying a previously undiscovered tribe in new guinea , krippendorf petitions for new funds while hiding the fact that the previous $100 , 000 grant was spent on trips to mcdonald's .  but when his " discovery " becomes the latest craze among colleagues , the professor finds he must do more than talk about the tribe - he must create it .  with the aid of his three children , the headstrong teen shelly ( natasha lyonne of everyone says i love you ) , the slightly younger mickey ( gregory smith ) , and the nine-year-old edmund ( carl michael lindner ) , the " shelmikedmu " tribe ( named from the first half of each child's name ) is born , and videos quickly produced in krippendorf's backyard are passed off as stunning documentary footage of the newly found new guinea tribe .  despite the professor's wishes , the buzz surrounding his discovery only grows , due in greatest part to veronica micelli ( jenna elfman ) , an overly vivacious ( and voluptuous ) anthropologist who barges her way into the discovery and basically deems herself krippendorf's main assistant .  hungry for recognition , micelli sets up interviews , lectures , etc . in an effort to make this the biggest sociological event in history , a sure fire way to go down in the history books .  krippendorf , on the other hand , is seeing himself go down a jail cell corridor , not in history books , and with each new lecture , he must come up with something impressive to unleash about the tribe - mating habits , domestic structure , etc . thru fumbling improvisation , and often some quick thinking from his oldest son , krippendorf makes it thru each new lecture , but only creates more and more interest in the highly unique tribe .  on the opposing end is krippendorf's arch rival , ruth allen ( lily tomlin ) , an arrogant professor whose jealousy drives her on a mission to disprove the existance of the non-existent tribe .  it's a cute idea , and approached with a more subtle ( and mature ) style , krippendorf's tribe could've been a real winner .  sadly , the mostly-misfired toilet humor , overly comical musical score ( by bruce broughton ) , and sugar coated sentiments ( all the key ingredients of a " family comedy " ) just aren't the right tone for this film .  cut that crap out , add some razor sharp dialogue and witty sociological perceptions and you've got a good start .  at the state it's in now , you've got something along the lines of medicine man meets mrs .  doubtfire meets dumb & dumber , and that's not a concoction anyone should be overly anxious to try .  the overall product here is a highly forgettable cup of " average " , with a few laugh-out-loud moments and a great big gap in between them .  most of the characters are surprisingly two-dimensional , and the only one who seems to exhibit any real acting effort ( lyonne ) seems to go greatly unappreciated .  director todd holland has gone about making this film in all the wrong ways .  it's stuck in limbo between disney family fare ( jungle 2 jungle ) and potentially hilarious adult comedy ( a fish called wanda ) .  it's this unbalanced structure that really knocks it down a grade , and it's a brutal drop .  a strong warning to parents : forget the impression given by advertisements , do you want to take your kids to a film that has a woman asking a man if he finds her attractive merely because she's holding his penis ?  yes , it's put that bluntly !  just be warned - this is merely one example of the many shocking subjects to be brought up in the film , and others might not be as tame . 
pos@ a costume drama set in the 1500s , england , elizabeth is a lush , romantic , political masterpiece about the upset over the crossing of a protestant queen from a respected catholic one .  when the court and country are a whole after the passing of the queens , the royal family , so to speak , are upset that a protestant should be crowened , and not another catholic , plus , the new queen , elizabeth i ( cate blanchette ) , was the bastard baby of the previous queen mary's father .  the persecution over catholics and protestants isn't the only majority in elizabeth .  elizabeth i must face the decision to give up personal pleasures , and her lover ( joseph fiennes of shakespeare in love ) , in order to rule , successfully , the country , which she did for 40 more years .  both elizabeth and shakespeare in love are set in the elizabethian era , and both feature a queen elizabeth i ( judi dench plays her in love ) , or course .  yet , i found elizabeth more stimulating and involving than love , not just because elizabeth features a great deal more of elizabeth i , but because i found blanchette a more powerful , hypnotic sense for the role .  elizabeth , also featuring geoffrey rush and richard attenborough , is my pick for the best picture of 1998 award .  it's a dynamic , important , breathtaking film of loyalty , power , greed , and trust .  shakespeare would die for the book rights . 
neg@ in times of crisis people are driven to desperate measures .  of course what constitutes a crisis differs from person to person .  what may be a disastrous situation for one , may be seen as a challenge to another .  as deepak chopra is known to say , " it's not the ride , it's the rider . "  unfortunately clear-thinking is not always the reaction to problems .  wall street wheeler dealer steven taylor ( michael douglas ) is a man with troubles .  he's sunk his money in illegal financial activities and it's blown up in his face .  in a matter of days he will lose it all .  his wife emily ( gwyneth paltrow ) is a highly-placed un interpreter and is not happy with her life either .  her marriage is cold and unfulfilling .  unknown to her , her new lover david shaw ( viggo mortensen ) is not only a painter , but an ex-con with a history of bilking wealthy women of their money .  emily is a prime target : she's worth over $100 million .  steven's solution to his predicament is to offer david half a million to kill his wife .  the artist accepts and the movie is underway .  drawing from frederick knott's play and loosely based on hitchcock's dial m for murder , this is all-too typical of summer releases .  all style and no substance .  and there's really not much style .  director andrew davis ( the accomplished witness and best-forgotten other films ) has made exactly the wrong choices at almost every turn .  douglas and paltrow have both shown us that they are skillful actors in previous films .  mortensen showed promise in the past .  here all three are walking uninterestingly through their roles with oddly waxen faces .  the only person who shows any sense of life is david suchet as new york detective mohamed karaman .  he's only on-screen long enough to make you think that there might be a likable person in the film and then he disappears .  the first concern of a suspense film is to create suspense .  surprises are important .  in this movie the audience keeps waiting for something to happen .  and nothing ever does .  nearly every event is telegraphed in advance .  close-up on this object or that action and it's easy to guess what's going to happen .  as the film plods towards its inevitable conclusion you keep expecting a plot twist to make the movie worthwhile .  it's a hopeless quest .  the story doesn't make much sense .  steven's wife is loaded .  even with unfriendly relations , you'd think that he could have talked to her about his difficulty rather than deciding to kill her .  when he does decide on the dire plan he makes an unreasonable choice .  if you were going to hire someone to kill your wife , would your first choice be her lover ?  no matter how sleazy he is , i would think there might be a chance that he would turn down the opportunity .  why would steven plan the murder as a break-in in their apartment ?  why not just take her out as she was walking to david's loft in a bad neighborhood ?  while deciding among the numerous summer films , you might do well to skip this one .  you'll find more suspense than this movie offers by watching the weather channel . 
pos@ capsule : this is a film that avoids easy answers .  wilhelm furtwangler , then the world's greatest orchestra conductor stayed in germany and cooperated with the nazis .  what were his views , was he a war criminal or a secret resistance fighter ?  how much did he know about crimes against humanity ?  the us government investigated him after the war and this film is a dramatization of that investigation .   , high +2 ( -4 to +4 )  in my opinion one of the best films of the last few years is istvan szabo's sunshine , a film that covers the fortunes of a jewish hungarian family under the reigns of three different regimes , hungarian aristocrats , nazis , and communists .  szabo's follow-up film , a german production , is much more limited in scope .  it is about the post-war investigation of who criminally supported the nazis and who opposed them .  ronald harwood's screenplay ambiguously looks at the investigation of a great classical music conductor who stayed on in germany when the nazis took power and became the most popular conductor of the third reich .  maj . steve arnold ( played by harvey keitel ) has been assigned by his superiors to investigate wilhelm furtwangler ( stellan skarsgard ) , perhaps europe's greatest classical music conductor .  when other artists fled germany , furtwangler remained behind and conducted for the hitler and his henchmen .  after the war is over arnold assigned to interview furtwangler and members of his orchestra and if appropriate to prosecute him for war crimes .  he secretly is told by his commanding officer to find furtwangler guilty .  from there we follow him and learn a little about arnold and something about furtwangler and his orchestra .  as he interviews members of the wartime orchestra arnold starts noticing odd peculiarities that may or may not point to a conspiracy against his investigation .  there is a certain sameness to the responses that he is getting .  perhaps any cooperation he is getting has been in some ways managed .  if so , perhaps he can never come to the truth .  in large part the film is about mind games that arnold uses to manipulate his interviewees and especially furtwangler .  where the script has problems is that in the end it is so ambiguous .  it has no obvious resolution and not much of a final act .  when it is over whether anything has been established is open to interpretation .  perhaps that is better than so many films that make it all to obvious what the audience should believe , but it is like watching a murder mystery and never finding out who the killer is .  we are given clues to something but they are never tied up .  in the end we just know more about both arnold and furtwangler .  the film is basically a stage play .  the visual is not very important .  corners are cut visually including touches like filling windows with photographs to avoid having to shoot on location .  as with a stage play , what this film centers on the dialog , and that is intriguing .  i rate the film an 8 on the 0 to 10 scale and a high +2 on the -4 to +4 scale .  [there is one piece of sloppiness few people but me would notice .  at one point we clearly see arnold's desk calendar say " jan 16 tues . "  a quick mental calculation told me that combination could occur in 1945 and then not again until 1951 .  the events had to take place in 1946 or 1947 .  a possible date could be obtained from any world almanac . ] 
neg@ roger ebert asks in his review of sexy beast , " who would have guessed that the most savage mad-dog frothing gangster in recent movies would be played by . . .  ben kingsley ? "  my response would be that anyone who has seen alan arkin in wait until dark , henry fonda in once upon a time in the west , or anthony hopkins in the silence of the lambs should have guessed it .  they should know that the way for a film to create a really creepy sociopath is cast someone who generally plays mild , sympathetic , or even ineffectual character roles .  the same characteristics that make an actor seem gentle in most of his roles can work in his favor when a role calls for him to be fierce and vicious .  that is the principle that works for kingsley in sexy beast .  gary " gal " dove ( played by ray winstone ) has retired from a london career of crime and is living on a luxurious villa in spain .  life has become a routine of sunning himself and relaxing .  but his paradise is about to be shattered by a one-two-punch .  the first punch is a boulder that comes rolling down the hill next to the villa .  the second punch comes from gal's past .  back in london gang boss teddy bass ( ian mcshane , tv's lovejoy ) is planning to break into a safety deposit room in a bank and he wants gal .  he sends his most rabid henchman don logan ( ben kingsley ) to fetch gal .  don will accept any decision gal makes from " yes " to " certainly . "  however , if gal says " no " don will do whatever it takes to turn it into a yes including threatening guy's ex-porn- star wife deedee ( amanda redman ) .  in the meantime don knows just how to get under everybody's skin .  kingsley makes don a compact package of fury and nastiness .  there are some serious problems in louis mellis's and david scinto's script that should have been caught before filming .  when we see the actual crime we have no idea why gal was so important to its success .  beyond an ability to use skin-diving gear , no special talents are required of him .  any local hood could have done what gal is needed for .  additionally the crime involves digging from a swimming pool to the bank vault , flooding the vault .  no only could they have let the water out of the pool and avoided the complication altogether , but there is by far too much water to be accounted for by what was in the pool .  in spite of the provocative title , the story is cliched and overly familiar .  i know i have seen all the plot elements of sexy beast in old westerns like the law and jake wade .  the story is usually of the reformed outlaw , a robert taylor type , who has hung up his guns and is trying for a life of peaceful respectability .  the old gang , however , wants to do one more job with their old buddy and sends a rabid richard widmark type to go and git ? im .  it is not a great plot .  in sexy beast even the plot twists have gray beards .  perhaps the film has a little more respectability because it was made not as a western but as a stylish british gangster film .  it is an old plot dressed up to look new .  if the plot is old , at least the style is creative .  this is director jonathan glazer's first film , but he has reputedly done some notable tv ads for guinness stout .  his style does have some unexpected touches including some very odd dream sequences .  cinematographer ivan bird uses a lot of half lit scenes .  we see one side of a person's faces .  but the other side fades into the darkness , a sort of metaphor for the half-world these characters in-habit .  half of everything that is happening is also kept hidden .  us yanks will have a hard time with some of the dialog .  at least in my theater it was difficult to make out the words with the quiet speaking , the heavy accents , and the cockney language .  sexy beast is a very and familiar minor plot lent respectability in the us by being done in what is here a still somewhat novel genre , the london crime film .  the plot may be new to british crime films , but it would be overly familiar as a western .  further respectability comes from ben kingsley's high-powered performance .  i give it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
pos@ the heartbreak kid ( reviewed on aug . 26th/1998 )  starring charles grodin , cybill sheppard , eddie albert  in " the heartbreak kid " , charles grodin plays one of the most unbelievably obnoxious characters i've seen on screen in a long time .  he's a guy who spends virtually the entire running time of the movie bullshitting his way from one situation to another .  i doubt he ever expressed any genuine feeling at all during the film .  as the film opens , he has just gotten married , and is on the way to miami beach for his honeymoon .  halfway there , he begins to resent his bride .  by the time he arrives at his hotel and has met the cybill sheppard character , he is ready to divorce his wife .  as played by grodin , this character is the type of person that nothing will ever be good enough for him .  the phrase " the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence " was practically written with him in mind .  however , if he finds something he really wants , he will pursue it for as long as it takes .  the only problem is , once he has it , he immediately loses interest .  the end of " the heartbreak kid " is both hilarious and sad for that very reason .  charles grodin is at his smarmy best here , and sheppard is quite appealing as the object of grodin's desire .  however , the real scene stealer is jeannie berlin , daughter of director elaine may , as grodin's whiny bride .  she owns every scene that she's in , and makes you almost want to root for what the grodin character is trying to do .   " the heartbreak kid " was written by neil simon and it shows .  simon loves to deconstruct and analyze human relationships , and he's at the top of his game here .  as maddeningly obnoxious as the grodin character is , he's the type of guy that everyone knows .  the character of george costanza on " seinfeld " seems to have been modelled after him .  the only problem with the film is that it's not that funny , and it's billed as a comedy .  as much as i could see the realism in the characters , it would have been nice to have a chuckle here and there .   " the heartbreak kid " is not a date movie .  it has an extremely negative view of relationships , so seeing it with a girlfriend/boyfriend , could be hazardus to your health . 
neg@  " the red violin " is a cold , sterile feature that leaves you uninvolved and detached .  it's a movie that seems almost clinical , as it traces the 300-plus-years history of the legendary musical instrument of the title .  opening in the 17th century , the story shows how violin-maker nicolo bussotti created the instrument as a gift for his unborn son .  but when tragedy strikes , the violin becomes the personification of its maker's grief .  from there the violin comes into the hands of an orphaned child prodigy at an austrian monastery .  again , tragedy strikes as the child is struck down at the moment of his triumph .  we follow the violin through the centuries as it finds a home in england and in mao's communist china before being discovered by expert charles morritz ( samuel l . jackson ) , who mounts a painstaking investigation to prove its authenticity .  the violin becomes morritz's obsession , just as it is for all those who converge on a montreal auction house to bid on it .  morritz , however , is the only one who knows the secret of the instrument and can understand and appreciate its creator's intention .   " the red violin " could have been a touching , inspirational story , as soaring as a beethoven symphony .  however director francois girard fails to make any emotional connection with the viewer .  here is a story that could have made use of various camera angles and lighting to heighten its impact .  girard , for some unknown reason , uses mostly master shots , keeping his camera - and thus us - at a distance .  we get no feel for the miracle that is the violin .  it's resonance , its purity of sound are not emphasized enough to make an impression .  nor are any of the performances memorable .  it's as if girard wanted all his actors to play second fiddle to his violin .   " the red violin " promises much , but delivers little .  it is dull at times , a bit pretentious and a might murky .  the movie's music soars over its story and performers .  and that is its only saving grace . 
pos@ usually when a blockbuster comes out , it's loaded with effects , stars , bad scripts , and plenty of action .  mystery men may contain an all-star cast , and efects , but the clever script and characters are what really works , which is rare to see this year .  the film is based upon the comic book series " the flaming carrot " by bob burden , in which 3 wanna be super heroes try and fight crime , only to be out done by the real hero of champion city , captain amazing ( greg kinnear ) .  things go a little haywire , when the sinister casanova frankenstein ( geoffrey rush ) is released into the city , where he captures captain amazing , and plans to wreak havoc upon champion city .  well , the trio decide to take matters in their own hands , by saving the city , but first they need some assitance .  this is where the film takes a turn for the better .  in the beggining , there were only 3 wanna be heroes .   " blue raja ( hank azaria ) , " mr . furious ( ben stiller ) and " the shoveller ( william h . macy ) .  sure they were enterataining , but their acts grew old fast .  that is until they aquire " invisible boy " ( kel mitchell ) , and " the bowler " ( janeane garafalo ) and " mr . splein " ( paul reubens ) , 2 of which rescue the film from becoming a disastorous mess .  thankfully , the original 3 heroes become amusing , with some support of reuben and garfalo on screen .  the whole premise is rather ridiculous , but packs a few punches to keep interest .  for one , the film is considerably clever .  it literally pokes fun at super hero films , like batman and robin , superman etc . in fact , many scenes are similar to batman and robin , including the opening sequence , only altered in a humorous and superior way .  a part of the cleverness comes from the cast .  sometimes a film with such talent is overblown , but the acting is what keeps it alive here .  while azaria and macy were enteratining , 2 characters really stood out .  one was paul reuben .  no matter how disgusting or revolting " mr . splein " may be , you still can't help but laugh .  it' so incredibly moronic , it's just a riot watching reuben relieve himself of bodily functions .  janeane garafalo also was an interesting character .  she seemed to be the most outgoing and convincing character on screem , due to her enthusiasm , that kept the film flowing .  men is worth seeing alone , for those 2 troubled heroes .  on the downside , a few of the heroes and especially the villain never really lift off .  kel mitchell and geoffrey rush , were both utterly useless .  their parts were so limited , they'd be lucky at all to be on screen for more than 20 minutes .  ben stiller too was wasted , mostly because of his unlikeable power and dialogue .  none of these characters get a rise out of anybody , but happily they are lost in the charming flow of the film .  as far as the budget goes , it was wisely spent on the cast , not the effects .  while the set designs and action all look nice , i'm glad there was a seperate aspect , that the film focused on , and for that i applaud .  slow at times , and rather pointless , mystery men still delivers .  it forgets about money making , because it's not likely to make a bundle like it's proceeders , and that's what works .  stupid ?  maybe , but for once i'm not disappointed .  no one expected an intelligent film , but you get a film thats wit captures your attention and makes you forget this miserable year . 
neg@ lengthy and lousy are two words to describe the boring drama the english patient .  great acting , music and cinematography were nice , but too many dull sub-plots and characters made the film hard to follow .  ralph fiennes ( strange days , schindler's list ) gives a gripping performance as count laszlo almasy , a victim of amnesia and horrible burns after world war ii in italy .  the story revolves around his past , in flashback form , making it even more confusing .  anyway , he is taken in by hana ( juliette binoche , the horseman on the roof ) , a boring war-torn nurse .  she was never really made into anything , until she met an indian towards the end , developing yet another sub-plot .  count almasy begins to remember what happened to him as it is explained by a stranger ( willem dafoe , basquiat ) .  his love ( kirstin scott thomas , mission impossible ) was severely injured in a plane crash , and eventually died in a cave .  he returned to find her dead and was heart-broken .  so he flew her dead body somewhere , but was shot down from the ground .  don't get the wrong idea , it may sound good and the trailer may be tempting , but good is the last thing this film is .  maybe if it were an hour less , it may have been tolerable , but 2 hours and 40 minutes of talking is too much to handle .  the only redeeming qualities about this film are the fine acting of fiennes and dafoe and the beautiful desert cinematography .  other than these , the english patient is full of worthless scenes of boredom and wastes entirely too much film .   , 
pos@ the ultimate match up between good and evil , " the untouchables " is an excellent movie because it looks deeper into an already examined rivalry .  based on the 1959 television show of the same title , " the untouchables " may be an exaggeration of the real life events that took place , but it fits together perfectly with some beautifully filmed action sequences , some excellent acting , a memorable score , and a clever script .  the film takes place in chicago during the prohibition era where mobsters led by the ruthless al capone run an underground market of liquor to the demanding public .  elliot ness and a small force of men known as the untouchables attempt the impossible by trying to stop capone and trying to maintain peace and order .  however , as ness soon learns , in order to stabilize peace , you have to bend a few laws .  the fact that capone is evil is very apparent from the first few scenes .  the film begins with capone , played perfectly by deniro , declaring that he is not a violent man and he is a firm believer in following all laws .  the film then quickly transfers to the next scene in which one of capone's men bombs a restaurant that contains many innocent people including a little girl .  from this point we know capone is evil , not only because he kills without hesitation , but also because he is a lying bastard .  right from the first five minutes of the film , de palma has created a hatred towards capone and he shows that this man must be brought down at all costs .  this developed hatred is before the film's hero , ness , is even introduced .  i found this approach to be very clever because in a small duration of time there is a great amount of admiration for ness and an equal amount of hatred for capone .  the film only gets better from this point .  with the formation of the untouchables , there is a group of men wearing long , dark overcoats and hats .  they walk in unison and they only look forward .  as they walk down the streets they are observed and feared by citizens .  holding shot guns and pistols in their hands to stop criminals , this image of vigilantes must have influenced future films .  one that comes to mind is " the matrix " when neo , morpheus , trinity , and the rest of the gang first come into the virtual world .  wearing more futuristic outfits of the same 1930's style , the similarities between these two are countless .   " the untouchables " has some of the hippest , bravest heroes in any action film .  the four members were the only ones willing to go against capone's army .  each member of this special group also had their own characteristics that separated them from others .  elliot ness , played with perfect ingenuity by kevin costner , is a character that surely grows during the course of the film .  he begins as a man who is determined to follow all laws no matter how unfair they may be .  however , as the film develops so does ness .  his beliefs involving the law are shattered when he realizes that those he trusted are actually members of the other side .  he also begins to lose his stability when his adversaries begin to murder his friends .  his anger becomes so thunderous that he can no longer hold it in .  sean connery , who won an academy award for best supporting actor in his role , plays malone , an aging cop who decides to make one final run as a member of the untouchables .  malone acts as a mentor to ness .  he teaches him " the chicago way " to do things ; when they attack with a knife , you attack with a gun .  connery plays his character with the exact amount of wit and experience needed .  andy garcia does a wonderful job as george stone , a young man who is just becoming a police officer .  as ness grows , he begins to teach stone some valuable lessons that malone once taught him .  charles martin smith is also fantastic as the final member who attempts to use an income tax offense against capone .  smith is perfect for his role as he adds some valuable comic relief to the film .  the action scenes are also some of the most beautifully choreographed i have ever seen .  also very similar to " the matrix , " they are exciting and intense .  >from a western-like battle to the famous confrontation at the train station steps , the scenes are well thought out and well executed .  the score during these scenes ingeniously adds to the excitement .  its pounding drum beats act as a rhythm for the actors .  the combination of image and music is very impressive and also very effective .  although the real life untouchables may have been excessively glorified , this film is pure entertainment and contains a unique blend of great acting , great directing , and great action .  some scenes ( capone and the baseball bat , the train station ) have stuck in my mind for years and seeing them again will only make them more vivid . 
neg@ after enduring mariah carey's film debut , glitter , i'm reminded of a bit from chris rock's bigger and blacker .  in response to women saying that they can raise a child without a man , rock says , " you can drive a car with your feet , but that don't mean it should be done . "  to that i say , you can give mariah carey a movie , but that certainly don't mean it should be done .  sure , there are plenty of pop star film vehicles out there -- from the beatles' a hard day's night to the spice girls' spice world -- but none have been so vapidly pointless or laughable as glitter .  everything about this complete tripe is ludicrous .  start off with the story , which -- as gruesomely predictable as it is -- is the least offensive part of the movie .  the film is inexplicably set in the 80s , a period piece that really shows no sign of its period except for a few chicks in leg warmers .  worse yet , everyone's speaking late 90s hip-hop slang in what should be 1983 .  meant to be partially autobiographical , carey plays billie frank , a young singer in new york who struggles to overcome a rough childhood and abandonment by her alcoholic mother .  influential club dj julian dice , a . k . a . " lucky 7 " ( max beesley playing a bad mix of puff daddy and robert de niro ) , hears her sing on a track , and decides to make her a star .  in predictably rapid succession , billie and dice fall for each other , she starts hitting it big , dice gets jealous and starts acting like an ass , and suddenly billie's on " the roller coaster of superstardom . "  in the meantime , billie is on an emotional hunt for her missing mom .  i won't give away the ending , but -- honestly -- just think of unicorns and rainbows . . .  you'll figure it out .  the movie screams to be made with camp , and that could've been fun .  but the filmmakers thought making the bulk of glitter weepy and dramatic would be better .  what a mistake .  the brief attempts at comic relief -- as in a scene where an effeminate russian-sounding director gets wacky with filming billie's first music video -- go over like lead balloons .  instead , the audience at my screening tended to laugh loudest during mariah's most dramatic scenes .  which brings us to the performances , of which there's nothing good that can be said .  mariah is primarily seen with a wide-eyed deer-in-the-headlights look frozen on her face .  she actually looks scared during her one love scene .  but you have to wonder if the writing isn't even worse .  so much of the dialogue is so hackneyed and watered down for carey's virginal target audience that it's probably impossible for any actor to pull it off with aplomb .  even the characters couldn't have been written more absurdly .  they're all members of a barbie playset : the important film director who swoons , " billie , i'd love to put you in a movie i'm making , " and the big-time record executive who takes billie's demo tape and says , " oh , i'll make sure the whole team listens to it in the morning . "  everyone in the film is a device , and it's painful to keep watching just to see another one appear .  to say more would be a waste .  there's so much wrong with this film .  and , it pains me that mariah carey -- with her ego and sanity in such fragile condition these days , as evidenced by her multiple hospital stays -- will have to suffer through all the negative reviews she's likely to get .  but , then again , i had to suffer through her movie . 
pos@ the caveman's valentine starring samuel l . jackson , ann magnuson , aunjanue ellis , tamara tunie screenplay by george dawes green , based on his novel directed by kasi lemmons   * * * for more film , dvd and books about movie reviews , plus annual coverage of the toronto international film festival , visit _film freak central_ - http : //filmfreakcentral . net  | now with search engine * * *  a strange mixture of _shine_ , _basquiat_ , _angel heart_ , and grant morrison & dave mckean's graphic novel " arkham asylum " , _the caveman's valentine_ is a feverish tale of a homeless madman-cum-detective who , on the morning of february 14th , discovers a " valentine " just outside his new york cave : one of ella fitzgerald's strange fruit , stuck in the crotch of a tree--a young male model murdered and frozen to a branch .  believing at first that his imagined nemesis stuyvesant , shooting evil rays into his mind from atop the chrysler building , is responsible for the murder , romulus ( samuel l . jackson ) is put on the trail of an avant-garde photographer in the mapplethorpe mould , david leppenraub ( colm feore ) .  his minor sleuthing interrupted by the occasional delusional fit and bouts with an ecstasy of creation ( romulus was a brilliant julliard-trained pianist prior to his psychosis ) , romulus uncovers clues and harasses suspects on his way to convincing his police-woman daughter ( aunjanue ellis ) that even though he's a nut , that doesn't mean that he can't solve a high-profile society murder .  every moment an exhausting workshop of ideas , and every character the same , _the caveman's valentine_ is a concept so " high concept " that it suddenly became clear to me that the film fits into the comic book genre of entertainment , with romulus's " caveman " a slightly more mundane version of todd mcfarlane's urban noir hero , spawn .  with a long-vanished wife ( tamara tunie ) acting as a spiritual guide , the occasional social caste commentary , the secret base in a cave , a divergent genius personality with a network of informants and supporters , and a wickedly colourful arch-enemy , the film piles on the lurid comic book details and dizzying slapdash colours to such a lavish extent that i was vaguely surprised that the blue police cars weren't inscribed with " gotham pd . "  that being said , _the caveman's valentine_ can only really succeed as a heroic fantasy , a frank miller graphic novel that has the audacity to portray the blood staining a field of virgin snow expanding to form the shape of a heart .  the difficulties with the film spring from the misunderstanding that it somehow adheres to the conventions of a thriller or a police procedural when , in fact , _the caveman's valentine_ is a superhero fable that takes on the cause of the homeless ( again like mcfarlane's spawn ) while attacking the entrenched ruling classes in government and the arts .  it is no small detail that our hero , romulus , is not only named for a member of the ruling class who lived his life ( in legend ) without knowledge of his royal birth , but also that our romulus has turned his back on the comforts of the literati in favour of a mystical existence living in a cave in a park . in the romulus mythology , signs of romulus' royal blood is brought by twelve vultures , while in the film , the call to action for our hero comes in the form of not the carrion birds , but of the carrion itself .  whether or not romulus of _the caveman's valentine_ will found a nation , or , in the case of novelist george dawes green , upon whose novel his own screenplay is based , a franchise , the fact remains that _the caveman's valentine_ is easily the most misunderstood film of 2001 thus far .  it , along with m . night shyamalan's _unbreakable_ , is a mature cinematic extrapolation of the graphic novel format which has , since miller's seminal " the dark knight returns " , redefined the comic medium as one suitable for mature ruminations on psychologically sticky topics .  readers of sam keith's brilliant " the maxx " comic series ( or of mtv's short-lived animated adaptation of the same ) are already familiar with the idea of a homeless man placed in the position of knight errant and king of his own twisted demesne .  the failure of both " the maxx " tv show and of _the caveman's valentine_ ( not forgetting the initial backlash against _unbreakable_ ) suggests that the public may not be ready for america's surprising contributions to dark fantasy .  luxuriantly lit , brashly saturated , and comic-panel framed with a virtuoso grace by cinematographer amy vincent ( _death in venice , ca_ ) , while inhabiting robin standefer's ( _practical magic_ ) mesmerizing sets , _the caveman's valentine_ is an unremittingly gorgeous film .  kasi lemmons , following up her brilliant 1997 debut , _eve's bayou_ , which played on similar themes of manufactured realities and mysticism , fulfills much of her immense promise with a tale of seraphs and lost boys , artists and suffering .  _the caveman's valentine_ is an elegant and piquant expression of hope for justice in a tilted landscape .  clearly not for every taste , when approached with the correct paradigm , it is one of the most stunning and intensely fascinating films of the year : a redefinition of the hero archetype for a post-modern audience with urine-stained wool trench coats in place of blue tights and red capes .  _the caveman's valentine_ is a fine and a courageous film , crazy enough to suggest that the delirious yammering of an idiot savant is the best and truest paladin of order in the chaos of eliot's rat's alley wasteland . 
neg@ sometimes a stellar cast can compensate for a lot of things , and " pushing tin " certainly features some name stars who are going places : billy bob thornton , cate blanchett , angelina jolie , and oh yes john cusack who might not realize it at first , but he's actually the * veteran * among this quartet of fine-looking people .  sometimes a terrific cast like this can compensate for a lackluster screen treatment of an idea that has " hip comedy " written all over it , compensate for workmanlike but uninspired direction , compensate for an obnoxious score that would have anyone but the tone deaf screaming for the exits , compensate for clich ? d characterizations , compensate for embarrassing " you have to be joking " situations .  etc .  in " pushing tin , " thornton , blanchett , jolie , and cusack don't have an earthly .  from the opening sequence the film is in big trouble : squiggly , " quirky " credits , fake-looking passenger planes circling new york , and anne dudley's in-your-ear music making us wonder how she ever got that best original score nomination for " the full monty , " let alone won it .  but i , for one , wasn't ready to walk just yet .  so quickly we descend into a tightly-edited air traffic controllers montage which screams to us in large capital letters these people have a difficult job , yes , what with their frantic , mile-a-minute instructional personas , juggling planes and passenger's lives like some huge , real , mid-air video game .  hip , cool , demonic auctioneer nick " the zone " falzone ( cusack ) is the best in the biz .  of course .  until some hipper , cooler , leather-clad flyboy assist in the guise of russell bell ( thornton ) shows up to challenge falzone's finite air space .  boys will be boys and some heavy duty testosterone starts exuding , then the macho one-upmanship begins .  it doesn't stop with seeing who can juggle three 747s within a cat's whisker of each other .  oh no .  there are some broken hoop dreams , some wanna-see-how-fast-i-can-drives , and then the ultimate showdown : was that my wife i saw you with last night ?  director mike newell ( " four weddings and a funeral " ) must have read a different draft of this script because the one that's being acted out up there between newark , jfk , and la guardia doesn't have an ounce of subtlety , and newell has made some awfully good-and funny-movies before .  the antics of these air traffic controllers will make you cringe .  they'll make you frown in disbelief .  they'll have you constantly looking at your watch .  but wait !  there's still 100 minutes to go ! !  the film's only saving grace is blanchett , whose connie falzone is a spunky , brash , long island housewife who wants to better herself by taking art classes .  this is a wonderful accomplishment for the fine actress who has previously played a red-headed australian gambler ( " oscar and lucinda " ) and a tempestuous british monarch ( " elizabeth " ) .  but she's not enough to save the picture .  thornton looks terrific and performs solidly but his character is a joke .  jolie ( as russell's knock 'em dead wife ) isn't bad , but the up-and-coming actress disappoints by allowing herself to be displayed like a plaything .  cusack cracks gum , dons shades , and acts hip throughout but , like everything else in the film , his performance is forced .  in the last ten minutes or so , for some inexplicable reason , things start coming together and you begin to get a sense of how this film might have been , like the trailer teases .  but it's too little too late .  a fine cast aside , " pushing tin " is nothing more than an embarrassment . 
pos@  " psycho meets the exorcist with no holds barred " .  a blurb like that sounds like desperate publicity for some low budget , third rate rip-off .  but no , this tacky plug comes from the poster for suspiria , perhaps italian horror director dario argento's most consistently successful film .  what impresses most in re-watching this surrealistic , supernatural thriller is that argento's directorial flair and stylish visuals are matched by a near-fully coherent narrative .  screenplays have always been his achilles heel ; confusing subplots , gaping holes , totally illogical incidents and reactions .  no question : argento has always been a better director than a writer .  fortunately , he gets the plotting pretty well right with suspiria , taking his cue from a book by thomas de quincey called " suspiria de profundis " .  the film's storyline suffers from no major lapses in logic , provided one can accept the premise of a ballet school being a front for a coven of witches .  jessica harper plays an american who travels to germany to further her studies in dance .  arriving at the school late at night in driving rain , she sees a girl leave and run into the storm in a clearly distressed state .  what happens next - and i don't make the comparison lightly - is a murder sequence that for intensity , shock value and sheer directorial flair ranks alongside alfred hitchcock's infamous shower scene in psycho .  it's quite possibly a homage to hitchcock , but with its baroque sets , graphic gore and brilliantly chaotic musical accompaniment by the gothic rock group goblin , this stunning sequence remains very much argento's own .  though nothing else quite equals the intensity of suspiria's opening 15 minutes , the film continues to be never anything less than engrossing as harper begins her own investigations and slowly comes to realise this is no ordinary ballet school .  we meet an assortment of slightly sinister characters , most notably the head ballet teacher played by alida valli in another one of those delicious sour-old-matriarch-from-hell roles she does so well .  several more violent murders ensue , including a startling scene in a deserted square where a blind man is . . . well , i wouldn't want to spoil things now , would i ? and the film's climax , staged amid secret corridors and hidden rooms , has a gothic ghoulishness that's most impressive .  the english language versions of most argento movies usually suffer trimming , and not just for the violence - deep red and phenomena , for example , have been appallingly hacked about .  fortunately , the cuts to suspiria ( about 7 minutes in this version ) have not adversely affected the film .  the dubbing of the italian actors into english is quite competently done , too , excepting one appalling and unintentionally hilarious effort with a conversation between harper and a professor about the history of witchcraft in the region .  and the soundtrack ?  it is interesting to imagine what power the film would have lost if it had been scored by someone else .  as it stands , the use of goblin's music in suspiria is outstanding .  apparently , argento played the soundtrack on location while filming so the actors could hear the music as they acted out their parts .  a stereo video player adds greatly to the viewer's overall experience .  even better , see suspiria in a cinema , where you'll get the added bonus of widescreen .  and the colours !  deep reds , eerie blues , a superb use of shadow and contrast .  the cinematography of luciano tovoli , whose more recent credits include reversal of fortune and single white female , is uniformly superb .  a nod also must go to production designer giuseppe bassan for his wonderful baroque interiors .  these kinds of settings are crucial to the atmosphere of argento's more surreal excursions , the other most notable example being inferno ( 1980 ) on which bassan also worked .  suspiria is the film that broke dario argento into the major league of european directors , and it is fully deserving of its cult status .  the gore is at times a little excessive and overstated - that's always been one of argento's shortcomings - but overall this is a fascinating , compelling example of italian horror . 
neg@ you don't look at a ren ? magritte painting and search for a deeper meaning .  you likewise don't look at one for 88 minutes straight .  surrealist works are notable for their quirks , and they are fun , but looking at one quirk for an hour and a half is exhausting .  that was my experience with i woke up early the day i died , a surrealistic , hyperactive comedy with no dialogue .  it's not a silent movie ; there is lots of atmospheric music , occasional screams and weird sound effects , but nobody ever utters an audible word .  though the film is distinctive , its unique style wore thin after about 20 minutes , and as it progressed , watching became a chore .  the only reason the script ever got filmed is because it was written by the pseudo-legendary ed wood , the man behind such " classics " as plan 9 >from outer space and night of the ghouls .  the joke , of course , is that his films are so bad , they're good ; so humorous in their inanity that they become hits .  i woke up early the day i died , unfortunatly , is so bad that it's really bad .  it stars billy zane ( titanic ) as a dangerous lunatic who overpowers a nurse , escapes from a mental hospital and proceeds to wonder around , stealing a car , clothes , and a load of money .  our thief reaches a cemetery , where he witnesses a bizarre ritual .  he falls asleep and finds himself , literally , in a hole , with his money gone .  for whatever reason , he is bent on getting his hard-unearned cash back ( considering how easily he stole it the first time , why didn't he just go steal some more ? ) .  he comes upon a list of the people who were at the mysterious ceremony and commences to seek out each of them and kill them if they don't have what he is looking for .  i don't think either director aris iliopulos nor ed wood realized that this would have made a glorious 20 minute short .  the subject and the style seem to have been made for it .  unfortunately , twenty minutes worth of material is stretched out to more than four times that length , and the film simply overstays its already dubious welcome .  it grabbed my attention in the beginning and gradually lost it as it went on , up to the point where halfway through i was already weary .  it might seem odd that a film as furiously paced as this one can be so tedious ; but the surprise will wear off when you consider how repetitive it is .  i woke up early the day i died is a comedy , i guess , though it could have fooled me .  unlike most ed wood films , this one tries to be funny and fails , instead of the other way around .  there's nothing inherently wrong with that , in fact , i think it would only make sense for someone who has been so " good " at making unintentional comedies to take a stab at a real one .  whether wood actually went for comedy in his script we'll never know , but in either case , this is a failure .  jonathan taylor thomas , christina ricci , summer phoenix , john ritter and others show up for short and pointless cameos .  ricci , for example , plays a prostitute .  her role consists of dancing around with zane in his motel room and then being thrown out .  thomas is an astonished onlooker as a woman gets thrown off a cliff .  was the home improvement teen heartthrob really that desperate for work ?  zane , meanwhile , occupies himself by making weird faces at the camera when he is not called upon to run around wildly and beat people up .  lack of dialogue makes him the ultimate caricature .  the carnival side-show climax manages to demonstrate everything that is wrong with this no-budget production .  it's desperately unfunny , but thinks it's the funniest thing since plan 9 ; , it's so spontaneously surrealistic it makes your head spin all while being confusing enough to make your head spin twice as fast in the other direction .  i hope another film is made from an ed wood screenplay for i woke up early the day i died is not a fitting send-off .   ? 1999 eugene novikov &#137 ; 
pos@ usually when one is debating who the modern queen of the romantic comedy is they will bring up names like julia roberts or sandra bullock .  others will mention meg ryan .  but for me , it's not even close .  janeane garofalo is not only the queen of the romantic comedy , she is the best comic actress in hollywood right now .  and it's a good thing she's starring in the matchmaker , because without her presence the movie would be bland , unfunny , and dull .  garofalo stars as marcy tizard , a top aide to boston senator john mcglory , who is suffering in the polls .  in an attempt to capture the irish vote , he sends marcy on a mission to a small irish town called ballinagra in search of other mcglory's that never moved to america .  unfortunately for marcy , her visit coincides with the town's annual matchmaking festival .  things get off to a rocky start for marcy though .  she has no hotel reservations ( for no rational reason ) and the tiny confined room ( tired old cliche' ) she has to stay in has a visitor in her bathtub .  his name is sean , and marcy finds him repugnant at first , so you can obviously tell where this is headed .  the movie runs into a few roadblocks .  for instance , the story is very thin .  none of the characters ( except the old local matchmaker ) are nearly as interesting as garofalo .  some of the characters , like the political aide played by denis leary , have wandered in from a completely different movie .  i think the director realized this and decided to throw in numerous shots of the beautiful irish scenery , and several close-ups of garofalo's winning smile .  the strange thing is that it works .  garofalo's charm and the irish scenery could carry the thinnest of stories , and it carries this one . 
neg@ plot : a down-and-out girl moves in with some over-the-top models and falls in love with a goofy-but-loveable guy from across the street .  aaaaaaaaah !  then one day , she sees him knock a woman upside the head with a baseball bat .  ooooooooh !  she must then join together with her model-friends to find out whether or not this guy is really goofy-but-loveable , or a psycho killer .  aaaaaaaaah !  critique : completely idiotic .  okay , so maybe i'm being a little too nice .  this movie starts off dumb , moves into the ridiculous and eventually graduates to idiocy .  there . . . that's  more like it !  and how , you may ask ?  well , it's simple really .  four of the dumbest stereotypical models in the world ( oh my god , i just found out that the actresses playing the parts are models in real life . . . yipes ! )  join monica potter ( in a role which can only be described as an obvious cry for help ) and freddie prinze jr . ( not the actor , but the character better known as freddie prinze jr . ) , in a plot so stupid and far-fetched , that you have to wonder once more , how crap like this gets by the hollywood bigwigs .  this thing stinks to high-heaven .  it's just plain embarrassing for everyone involved .  i even felt my iq dip below its usual low as toilet humor somehow worked its way into this so-called romantic-comedy-action movie ?  ugh .  what a pile of dung .  hey , i'm actually starting to sound a little like harry knowles here , but i guess i could see where his frustration comes from time to time .  it's sad really .  a movie which actually had quite a few people in my audience laughing at its idiocy , including the over-used " folks hiding in the bathroom while someone else comes in to take a crap and fart " gag .  and how about that dumb blonde model who keeps running into things .  pure hilarity !  or maybe i'm just too jaded , too much of a critic , not relaxed enough to enjoy this fluff-piece . . . uuuhhmmm . . . naaaaah ! !  this movie sucks the big one .  it's chockfull of stupid characters delivering inane dialogue fitting snuggly into a preposterous plot .  this is the kind of movie that has one character inserting another character into a car headfirst to the floor only because . . . well ,  it's supposed to be funny , see ?  you see , that person then has their legs swinging in the other person's face as they drive and that distracts the driver , see , and well , that's kinda funny , no ?  harumph . . . yeah ,  well . . . you  get the picture !  anyhoo , freddie prinze jr . . . . nuff  said .  monica potter , a bad career move , but we might forgive you if you keep up the julia roberts bit .  the rest of the model girls . . . well ,  thanks for being there so i had something to look at , but please apologize to the entire modeling community as a whole , for making them all out to be complete imbeciles ! !  so why the three points out of ten , you may ask ?  well , it's simple really .  one point goes to the russian model girl and that cool accent ( don't ask me why , but it actually turned me on ) .  one point goes out to all of the model girls for being in the movie ( nice window decoration . . . natch ! ) .  and one last point goes out to the makers of this film , who spared us any long sorted story , and made sure to give us the opportunity of leaving the theatre after only 90 minutes of manufactured garbage , so that we could run out as fast as we can , grab the next person that we see walking down the street and warn them of the devil that is . . . freddie prinze jr . . . i  mean , head over heels .  you've been warned , good people .  ps : didja notice how i didn't even mention rear window once in my entire review ?  i didn't want to taint the memory of the classic flick by having it uttered alongside this thing , but then again , i just did mention it , but i guess it doesn't count in the ps section . . . or  does it ?  ooooh , whatever . . . i have a headache !   ( i think my brain is coming back to life )  where's joblo coming from ?  10 things i hate about you ( 7/10 ) - coyote ugly ( 6 . 5/10 )  - down to you ( 6 . 5/10 )  - save the last dance ( 7/10 ) - she's all that ( 6 . 5/10 )  - the wedding planner ( 4/10 ) - you've got mail ( 5 . 5/10 ) 
pos@ i don't box with kid gloves .  i don't play nice , i'm not a nice guy , and i never , ever , go easy on a film .  i consider it to be a breech of some sort of code of ethics for a movie critic .  however , i do some favors , and these often come in the form of points that i hand to certain groups due to the artistic bravery .  rigormortis , the production company that has been my prime example of how money does not need to motivate filmmaking , gets several of these points each time .  i still , however , will not go easy on them .  they recently sent me a vhs copy of their down with america trilogy ( which begins , quite wittily , with a disclaimer that they are not trying to undermine america with the making of this film . ) and i decided to spend an hour of my day watching it .  in the famous lines of many martyrs , i have no regrets .  well , i do have some regrets , but that is not the point in the previous sentence .  the point of it was that down with america was a film that , from a critical standpoint , did not entirely disappoint me .  sure , the risky use of vhs instead of super 8mm or 16mm was a pain , and the natural light was one of the most annoying things about public access films , but the movie itself was fairly enjoyable .  down with america concerns a government agent , needless murder , and a book containing everything from the unabomber's manifesto to the 1995 apple computer profit report .  like the previous films of rigormortis that i have reviewed , it displays an off-kilter humor and intelligence ? it succeeds in making me laugh where countless studio films fail .  the best way to see this film would be as a parody of the countless conspiracy films that we have been drowned in since the paranoia of the 80s .  a dying movement from the day they started , these paranoid `thrillers' had the government always covering up something and had the same favorite word : `roswell . '  in down with america , the line `roswell' is highly absent .  with an about ten minute running time , down with america effortlessly sidesteps every clich ? that the conspiracy films fell into , makes jokes at them at the same time , and provides us with funny and memorable characters .  again , i have seen movies that have gone on two hours with characters i couldn't care less about .  the film , as previously stated , concerns a federal agent ( peter roach ) , an obsessed librarian ( meri stevens ) , a mystery man ( joe kaczkowski ) , and two people obsessed with silence in the library ( robb sherman , kevin flowers ) .  the plot : a book containing the secrets of all anarchists is hidden in ? a public library where it can be viewed by all .  from there we go into a delightful parody .  the federal agent claims his sovereign right to alter the truth , the librarian goes on a diatribe about the sanctity of books .  we spend our time laughing at fairly idiotic jokes that are performed much too well considering the lack of coaching of the cast .  although the actors and actresses are in small roles and give a whole new meaning to `no-name' , it ends up being the no-name people who do a good job , delivering better performances as comic villains than half the crap that hollywood turns out .  for once , i don't have a url that i know offhand to give you as to where to locate the film online .  i can only say that you should find my previous reviews of l'auto and les x-files and look up the rigormortis productions site in and of itself .  it's almost as much fun as the film . 
neg@ apparently , when crap calls , jim carrey answers .  here he is , mugging it up in countless unfunny ways for the fifth time , his second go-around in the role of pet detective ace ventura .  that means more talking ass-cracks , penis jokes and cries of " al-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-lrighty then . "  it all adds up to a sequel that makes the original resemble schindler's list in terms of dramatic merit , or lack of .  granted , there are a few laughs amid the constant barrage of pre-school humor , but anyone who appreciates good comedy will bang their head against the wall ten times for every minor chuckle .  it's a painful experience for anyone with a brain .  ace is distraught after accidentally dropping a racoon into a canyon ( in a parody of the opening scene of sylvester stallone's cliffhanger , jim carrey being the only person who can make stallone look like a college professor in terms of intellect , or lack of ) and decides to retire to the mountains of tibet to gain a higher level of consciousness ( or , in his case , a level of consciousness ) .  but he is pulled out of retirement to the tune of $20 , 000 to retrieve a sacred white bat for an african tribe .  why africa ?  so carrey can disguise himself nude inside a fake rhino and later climb out the rear end as a tourist family watches ( " look , the rhino's about to give birth ! " ) .  if that seems like hee-haw humor to you , by all means , see the movie .  if not , claim your place in human civilization with the rest of us .  obviously , there are quite a few nonmembers of civilization who made this movie , like the first ace ventura film ( i use the word " film " only because it was filmed , not because there's any level of artistic merit . ) , a huge success .  in fact , carrey only has a career because of the decline of intelligence in our culture .  you may say to me , " but andrew , look at jerry lewis .  he was born with a negative i . q .  and look how popular he was thirty years ago . "  maybe , but i still say jerry lewis is a notch or two up on the comedic ladder because he never actually did an impression in a movie of a rabid bulldog biting off a man's testicles . . .  lewis at least had the dignity to save that performance for when company came over . 
pos@ okay , let me first say , this is a beavis and butthead movie .  if you do not like beavis and butthead , do not go to see this movie ! ! ! ! !  however , if you do like them , i recommened you get out right now and go see it .  the movie starts off with the boys wondering what happened to their tv .  they notice that it has been stolen and they vow to find it .  this wind their way through america searching for dallas ( she is a woman ) .  they look for her because as they are searching for the tv , they find a drunk who wants them " to do " his wife .  well , of course they think he wants them to score with her when actually he wants them to kill her .  and the fun starts their .  this movie is a mix of funny gags that anly beavis and butthead could pull off .  it is quality entertainment that only fan of beavis and butthead would enjoy .  i enjoyed this movie alot because mike judge knew how to keep pace .  even when they were crawling through the desert and i thought the movie started to lag , he manages to keep the laughs coming .  if you expecting changes from the show keep looking .  the same character , the same voices , the same everything from the show and that's what makes it good .  you might think with a movie from a tv show , you can change a few things .  often times this spells disaster for films because the film makers veer away from what made the show popular in the first place ! 
neg@  " desperate measures " is a generic title for a film that's beyond generic .  it's also a depressing waste of talent , with the solid team of michael keaton and andy garcia unthankfully thrown thankless lead roles , not to mention once-cool director barbet schroeder sadly continuing his string of not-cool flicks -- this thriller is more " before and after " than " reversal of fortune . "  the movie is a big disappointment , and yet it's somewhat easy to see what motivated such big names to attach themselves to it -- the premise is both promising and intriguing .  too bad the execution's all wrong , though , because the set-up of " desperate measures " boasts some rather enticing elements that deserve to be put to far better use .  san francisco cop frank connor ( garcia ) is a single parent with a troubling dilemma -- his son matt ( joseph cross ) is stricken with cancer which only a bone marrow transplant can push into remission .  even worse , the only compatible donor is violent sociopath peter mccabe ( michael keaton ) , currently serving a life sentence for multiple murders and other various crimes against society .  connor tries his best to convince mccabe to go along with the surgery ; he's at first reluctant , but reconsiders after he realizes he can plan his escape at the hospital .  when he does make a run for it , connor offers close pursuit , but for different reasons than his superiors ( including the crusty brian cox ) -- they want to take mccabe down , while connor needs to keep him alive , or all hope is lost for his little boy .  one misstep " desperate measures " makes is in its underdevelopment of matt's illness .  what's needed are more details as to exactly why mccabe is the only bone marrow match that works ; there would seem to be other possible contenders somewhere in the country , and thus many of the ways that connor endangers the lives of himself and those around him by attempting to keep mccabe alive are just a little too hard to swallow .  take , for example , a scene where mccabe is trying to make a getaway by climbing over an elevated passage tunnel connecting two sections of the hospital .  the police have their spotlight and guns aimed right on him , and what does connor do ?  he shoots the spotlight out so that mccabe can continue his flight .  connor knows very well what dangerous deeds this guy is capable of , and yet never seems to think that mccabe will eventually get to and try to harm his son .  whatever .  to be fair , though , the lack of story background is the least of the movie's problems .  first and foremost is how cheaply " desperate measures " trades the potential of it's opening scenes for the routine action ballistics of its final hour .  once mccabe escapes , the film becomes the fugitive in reverse and with no thrills .  there are countless scenes where the good guys catch up to keaton only to have him grab a hostage and get away .  also , the movie is so intent on giving you a hoot-inducing , lip-smacking villain ( the ads have compared peter mccabe to hannibal lechter , natch ) that it completely casts garcia's frank connor by the dullsville wayside ; " desperate measures " appears to like its antagonist so much more than its protagonist , and the movie's head-scratcher of a send-off confirms this .  there is some good to be found amongst this mess , particularly in the acting department .  cast against type , michael keaton's understated menace is highly effective .  although he's not given much believable to work with , andy garcia plays off a taut emotional chord .  joseph cross , as garicia's ailing son , is surprisingly unsentimental , and marcia gay harden lends solid support as a doctor who becomes a major player in the unfolding chaos .  this cast does its best to camouflage the sorry plot as it chugs towards an inevitably happy ending , but most is lost .  it goes without saying that " desperate measures " needs an operation of its very own . 
pos@ contact is a film that tries to do several different things .  it is intended to present a realistic picture of what alien contact might be like , to restore a sense of wonder and mystery to the issue of extraterrestrial life , to raise questions about science and faith and how they would be relevant in such a situation , and to tell a personal story of a romance between the astronomer dr . ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) and the religious spokesman palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) .  the film succeeds wonderfully at its first two goals .  the portrayal of the communication from an alien world is much more reasonable ( albeit less immediately engaging ) than , say , the cold-blooded destructiveness of the invaders in independence day or even the complex process of abductions and genetic hybridization that forms the ongoing plot line of tv's the x-files .  the aliens in contact seem to be like us-they are more curious than anything else .  they know we exist , they want us to know that they exist , and they would like to make the next step and communicate in person .  the film wisely refrains from showing us the aliens directly , and between the characters' ongoing speculation about the extraterrestrials and the outstanding visuals in the climactic yet enigmatic scene when arroway arrives on the alien world , that sense of wonder and mystery comes through with a force rarely seen since stanley kubrick's 2001 : a space odyssey .  most of the film , however , takes place on earth , where there is an extended public debate on how to respond to these aliens .  scientists are enthusiastic , ultraconservative religious leaders are wary , and government officials are caught somewhere in between .  the debate is fueled largely by dr . arroway's atheism ; she seems the obvious choice to pilot the spacecraft for which the aliens have provided blueprints , but many are wary of sending an atheist as humankind's representative to another species .  the film is partly successful in raising and exploring these questions , especially when it reaches a conclusion that suggests that the two approaches - science and faith - could be viewed as complementary rather than diametrically opposed .  still , the film falls a little short in its representation of this conflict as it exists in american society .  the two " sides " are represented primarily by arroway and by far-right fundamentalists , but in reality probably 80% of americans are neither atheists nor far-right fundamentalists .  palmer joss occupies something of a middle ground , but he ultimately becomes distracted by personal motives and comes across as a less-than-ideal spokesman for any ideology .  then again , the film does concentrate mostly on public debate , which does , after all , tend to be dominated by extremists , rather than on dinner-table or college-dormitory discussions .  contact is accurate in its portrayal of these issues , then , but only within the narrow scope to which it confines itself .  the film's one clear failure is in the portrayal of the romance between arroway and joss .  for one thing , it resorts to the tired movie clich * that two attractive people will immediately fall in love as soon as they appear on the screen together , as there does not seem to be any other reason for their instant mutual attraction .  the romance rarely , if ever , sheds any light on the characters , although it occasionally tries and fails - joss's explanation that he quit the priesthood because of the celibacy requirement ( " i guess you could say i'm a man of the cloth , but without the cloth " ) , for example , is more like a punchline to a joke than character development .  instead , the romance mostly seems to exist for the sake of later plot developments .  granted , this is a plot- and idea-driven film and the characters are secondary , but this just seemed like laziness on the writers' part more than anything else .  the successes of contact , however , far outweigh its failures .  even if the social commentary had fizzled altogether ( which it didn't ) , the simple yet mysterious story of alien communication still would have made it a memorable film .  contact doesn't quite cover all the bases , but it covers about as much as one could hope for in a two-hour film , and its rejection of big-budget theatrics for a more realistic story is certainly admirable .  and i would not be surprised if , ten years from now , contact is mentioned in the same breath as 2001 and blade runner as one of the finest examples of sophisticated and intellectually relevant science fiction . 
neg@ a follow-up to disney's live-action " 101 dalmatians " that's better , more entertaining than the first ?  just as unlikely .  with " 102 dalmatians , " the disney studios have proven that when it comes to going to the dogs , more is definitely * not * the merrier .  1996's " 101 dalmatians " certainly wasn't the greatest movie-going experience of all time , but it did feature glenn close in an outrageous , larger-than-life performance .  in addition , we had two amiable leads in the form of jeff daniels and joely richardson , and lots and lots of adorable spotted puppies .  this time around there seem to be fewer puppies on the screen , and close's facial and physical gyrations are starting to feel as old as the 53-year-old actress under that startling black and white wig of hers .  but that's only half the problem with kevin lima's laborious film .  what makes " 102 dalmatians " such a collosal bore is its embarrassing attempts at humor ( here almost single-handedly foisted on a wisecracking macaw who thinks he's a dog , voiced by eric idle ) , its rabid plotlessness ( cruella goes after puppies again ; winds up in goo again ) and most of all , the incredibly wooden actors who plays the romantic " heroes " of the piece , a welshman named ioan gruffudd and the blander-than-bland alice evans as a parole officer named chlo ? .  gruffudd is cute and harmless , perhaps , but evans can't even aspire to that .  the dogs upstage them both , of course , but in the case of evans , even close's split ends are more animated .  bad acting , however , seems to be a requirement for this sequel , since g ? rard depardieu shows up as a french furrier with a haircut like robert de niro's in " men of honor . "  jean pierre le pelt is a flamboyant fashion designer with a penchant for fine furs and depardieu's over-the-top antics mimic those of the campy close flail for flail , and wail for wail .  france's most popular export besides brie has long since turned into a caricature of himself , and in " 102 dalmatians " the producers milk that realization for all it's worth--le pelt likes to refer to the furry little critters as " poopies , " par example ( and ad nauseum ) .  the finesses of the script ( attributed to four screenwriters no less , and far removed from anything dodie smith ever dreamed up ) are quickly dispensed with , since all it takes for a paroled cruella to be shaken from her years of successful aversion therapy in the slammer is the tolling of big ben ( ? ) .  that done , it's back to the mansion to roll around in her heretofore off-limits sables and minks and a plan to skin those little dahlings for the sake of a hooded designer gown .  the dogs are pretty cute--try making a puppy look otherwise--but that's pretty much all they are .  there's always the feeling that there's a trainer off in the wings , coaxing the dogs to open doors , or pick up their food bowls in unison , or pop a tape into the videocasette recorder .  savvy holiday goers should skip " 102 dalmatians " and pop the original 1961 animated classic into * their * vcrs instead .  it's one dalmatian less , but 101% more satisfying . 
pos@ apparently , director tony kaye had a major battle with new line regarding his new film , american history x . i don't know the details of the fight , but it seems that he is not happy with the final product , and nearly removed his name from the credits altogether .  i've heard about this kind of thing happening before , and it makes me wonder how much input a studio has over the films they produce .  as it is , i found american history x to be an extremely good film , not just because of tony kaye's focused look at the touchy subject of racism , but because of a powerful , charismatic performance from edward norton .  it's hard to believe that it has only been two years since norton's fantastic role in primal fear , but , here he is now , starring in his own film and making himself a star .  norton is one of those performers who becomes his character , and his work in american history x is one of the very best performances this year .  he plays a young man named derek vinyard , a skinhead living in venice beach with his brother , danny ( edward furlong ) , mother ( beverly d'angelo ) , and sister , davin ( jennifer lien ) .  the film opens with a flashback , in which derek brutally kills two black men vandalizing his car .  we find out that this lands him in prison , and the film from that point is seen through the eyes of danny .  in the present-time of the film , danny is in high school , and eager to follow the footsteps of his brother .  much of the film is told in flashback , and we see the path that leads to derek's adoption of white supremacy .  when derek is released , having served three years in prison , he finds that his brother is now a full-blown skinhead ; derek , however , has given up the violence , and tries to get his brother to understand why racism and the violence that comes with it are bad things .  what makes this all interesting is that these two young men are not stupid , thoughtless people -- they are intelligent and articulate , and voice their beliefs in disturbingly straightforward terms .  it's hard to make a controversial movie and not preach , but kaye has found the right note for his material .  because american history x is a mainstream film , there has to be a redemption phase for our main character -- some people may think that this is the only way to make him sympathetic .  i partially disagree with this , because , although i do not advocate racism in any way , it's interesting the way kaye presents derek -- he is a loud , obnoxious man , but he's also very smart .  the reasons for why he becomes a skinhead are believable -- his father was arbitrarily killed by a group of black men .  it's clear that he's passionate about his beliefs , and that he's not just a punk looking for an excuse to beat people up .  of course , it helps that kaye has an actor as talented as norton to play this part .  it's astonishing how frightening norton looks with a shaved head and a swastika on his chest .  in addition to getting the look just right , he's perfect for this role -- derek requires intelligence , depth , and a whole lot of shouting , and norton does it all with ease .  even when he's at his meanest , derek has a likable quality to him , and that's a gutsy approach when telling a story about a skinhead .  what adds depth to the story is a subplot in which the principal of danny's school ( avery brooks ) becomes obsessed with purging the hatred from danny .  the other performances are all terrific , with standouts from furlong , d'angelo , and lien .  visually , the film is very powerful .  kaye indulges in a lot of interesting artistic choices , and most of them work nicely -- lots of slow-motion and strange camera angles add to a moody atmosphere .  but , like a lot of movies lately , american history x skims past greatness in the last few minutes .  although the climactic scene is very moving , the picture ends with a pretentious , preachy resolution featuring a brief narration from a character who was killed .  for a movie so smart a subtle up until that point , it felt like a slap in the face to be hand-fed a theme in such a simplistic way .  it makes me wonder what , exactly , tony kaye disliked about the final version of his film .  perhaps this last scene was the problem .  it's hard to imagine any director not being at least partially pleased with a film this good -- in a time when so many movies are timid and weak , american history x manages to make a compelling argument for racism without advocating it any way . 
neg@ i can't recall a previous film experience where the fairly good time i was having turned as sour as quickly as it did during feeling minnesota .  for forty minutes or so , i was lured into a loopy if occasionally over-wrought romantic comedy , and i was even giving keanu reeves the benefit of the doubt .  then , rather suddenly , i was clubbed over the head with a nasty bit of violence ; shortly thereafter , i was whacked in the gut by another .  feeling minnesota is a film that made me feel violated , as though i had trusted writer-director steven baigelman to bring me a cool glass of water and instead he threw acid in my face .  feeling minnesota tells the story of a topless dancer named freddie ( cameron diaz ) who finds herself in deep trouble when her boss red ( delroy lindo ) suspects her of stealing from him .  red's punishment is to force freddie to marry his bookkeeper , sam clayton ( vincent d'onofrio ) , who is far from the man of freddie's dreams .  enter jjaks ( keanu reeves ) , sam's estranged younger brother , who arrives at the wedding just in time to catch freddie's eye and have sex with her in the bathroom .  united in their mutual attraction and their mutual loathing of sam , jjaks and freddie take off together , but sam isn't ready to let them go without a fight .  freddie , meanwhile , isn't ready to let sam's money go without a fight , and thus begins a series of violent confrontations .  there is both style and substance to the beginning of feeling minnesota , as baigelman opens with an effective montage showing jjaks and sam's intense sibling rivalry as boys , and their mother ( tuesday weld ) sending jjaks away to live with his father .  it does a great job of setting up jjaks' unstable life , a life which has landed him in trouble for petty crimes and always trying to please his family ; reeves' wounded look is just right for jjaks .  the wedding sequence includes a number of nice moments , most notably the aforementioned bathroom scene in which a simple question is given a very funny spin .  most important , baigelman begins to establish the connection between freddie and jjaks with humor and economy , as in a scene where they both spontaneously begin singing along to the replacements' " i will dare " on the car radio .  you would have every reason to expect that relationships -- both familial and romantic -- would be the focal point of feeling minnesota .  unfortunately , you would be dead wrong .  i suppose i should have expected daisies and valentines after an early scene in which red threatens freddie as she tries to avoid the wedding , but i certainly didn't expect what i got .  what i got was yet another in a long line of recent films trying to ride the tarantino wave by mixing gags and brutality , or rather creating gags about brutality .  suddenly , the story of romantic entanglements and family conflict becomes a story about a corpse , and everything which had come before degenerates so completely that virtually nothing is recognizable .  the sibling rivalry not only becomes little more than an excuse for one round of beatings after another , but there is no consistency to the characterizations .  vincent d'onofrio turns in a manic performance as sam , whose jealousy , competitiveness and apparent sense of inferiority seem far more in keeping with what we know about jjaks , while reeves turns into a framed hero too reminiscent of chain reaction , and both of them spend most of the second half of the film screaming and covered in blood .  there are films which have managed to employ a radical shift in tone successfully ( jonathan demme's something wild and neil jordan's the crying game come to mind ) , but they didn't try to draw an audience with the promise of relatively innocuous entertainment .  i don't want to dismiss baigelman's successes out of hand -- he gets a fun performance out of dan aykroyd as a crooked cop , and some well-crafted comic moments -- and it is not his fault that fine line has chosen to promote feeling minnesota as a light-hearted caper .  it _is_ his fault that he violates his own characters for the sake of shock value , and that he can't make his two halves into a whole .  feeling minnesota left me feeling used , and there's not much funny about that . 
pos@ the muppet movie is the first , and the best movie among the ever-growing list of muppet movies .  the muppet movie tells the story of how our hero , kermit the frog , came to be a star .  a delightful movie for all ages , the muppet movie is * bursting * with cameo appearances by countless hollywood stars of the 80's and today .  the muppet movie begins in a movie theater , where all of the muppet stars are anxiously awaiting the first showing .  once everyone is settled down , the movie inside of the movie begins .  it starts out with kermit in a swamp , playing his banjo and singing ( this shot required jim henson to spend hours underwater ) .  kermit is discovered by bernie , a big-time hollywood agent who happens upon kermit by accident .  bernie believes that kermit holds much potential to become a big star in hollywood .  kermit ponders the idea of becoming a big movie star , where he could " make millions of people happy " .  kermit decides to leave his swamp and make the trip out to hollywood .  along the way , kermit befriends his now famous muppet companions , beginning with fozzie bear , who had been spending his days doing stand-up comedy at the el sleezo cafe , owned by james coburn .  the two decide to team-up and continue on their way to hollywood .  but , doc hopper ( charles durning ) , the owner of a chain of french fried frog leg restaurants has a different idea .  he wants kermit to be his spokesman , but kermit is humiliated at the idea and spends the movie avoiding him and his assistants .  the trip continues , with kermit and fozzie meeting miss piggy , rowlf , gonzo , the electric mayhem band , and more muppets who all share the same wish : to make it to hollywood .  oh , and even more celebrities continue to appear .  kermit and miss piggy continue to get to know each other a little better , including a rather funny scene at a restaurant with steve martin as the waiter .  eventually , kermit and the group make it to hollywood .  that is , after kermit is finally able to elude doc hopper and proclaim his freedom .  lord lew , a big-time hollywood producer portrayed by orson welles , gives kermit his shot at stardom and gives him the go-ahead to produce a movie .  the muppet movie is definitely a movie that is fun for all ages .  it is also a sure-deal as one parents can watch , and enjoy along with their kids . 
neg@ if you've seen the trailers or commercials , it's rather difficult to really figure out what this movie has in store .  well , it's hard to tell after watching the movie as well .  bruce willis is a resident of the future , and it is a rather bleak future .  the world's population had disintigrated into a mere 200 , 000 and is no longer ruled by humans but animals .  the reason ?  in 1995 , an organization called the army of the 12 monkeys contaminated the world with a pure virus , thus wiping out practically the world's population in a mere month .  bruce willis' character is one of the surviving few , but is enslaved by scientists , as are most of last living humans .  they barter his freedom by sending him on an assignment and having him do the ultimate task : go into the past , find the leader of the army of the 12 monkeys , and kill him .  well , this explanation didn't come easy .  although the movie is very thought provoking of us as a people , our future and the evilo in the world , as a story it is very confusing .  and dragging .  i know a movie isn''t keeping my interest when i fidget in my seat or feel the need to look at my watch only to find that it's only been an hour passed .  terry gilliam has a certain style that i realize many appreciate , and i haven't watched his previous work brazil , but this movie felt like it took too long to tell and yet when one realizes the end is near because it is very easy to figure out , you wish it were more complex , and not to mention that the movie is depressing is the only reason why it did invoke emotion from me . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " legally blonde " ( m . g . m . )  it's a " pretty in pink " / " clueless " coming-of-age story for the new millennium as elle woods ( reese witherspoon ) , a perky southern california sorority queen , switches from fashion to law in order to win back her yuppy boyfriend ( matthew davis ) .  the girl-power story begins as this sweetheart of delta nu is unceremoniously dumped by a bonehead who says : " if i'm going to be a senator by the time i'm 30 . . . i  need to marry a jackie , not a marilyn . "  determined to prove she's as smart a snobby brunette ( selma blair ) from country-club connecticut , elle not only applies to harvard law school but gets in , much to the amazement of family , friends and faculty .  once there , this flaxen-haired fish-out-of-water not only survives but tenaciously thrives , befriending a local manicurist ( jennifer coolidge ) , dazzling a professor ( victor garber ) and rescuing a defendant ( ali larter ) in a celebrated boston murder trial , plus finding a more worthy beau ( luke wilson ) .  in the tradition of teen-comedy film-maker john hughes and his disciple amy heckerling , there's wit , cheerfulness , a fidelity of observation and a penchant for problem-solving .  first-time feature director robert luketic is blessed with reese witherspoon who's joyously incandescent in this utterly formulaic light comedy written by karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith , based on a soon-to-be-published novel by amanda brown .  the supporting cast is terrific , particularly raquel welch and holland taylor - and i particularly got a kick out of the gag of elle distributing scented resumes in pink , her signature color on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " legally blonde " is a frivolous , funny , feel-good 8 .  filled with ditzy blonde ambition , it's a movie for high-school kids that their parents would be happy to have them see . 
neg@ the happy bastard's quick movie review  holy man  more like holy crap .  the film stars eddie murphy as a mystical-ish figure named g on a strange journey of some sort when he comes across two network execs ( jeff goldblum and kelly preston ) with a flat tire on their hands .  somehow he ends up in their car and on their channel , a line-up of infomercial programs featuring the likes of betty white , morgan fairchild , and a slew of other celebrities and nameless figures .  it's here that he seems to hit his stride , speaking of life instead and somehow boosting sales .  at this point in the movie , of course , morality comes into play , particularly on goldblum , who suddenly feels he can market the magical g into megabucks to get in good with his boss ( robert loggia ) .  it doesn't take long for the movie to unfold into sappy mush , with realizations taking place left and right and poor plot points .  only a real zippy sequence involving frying morgan fairchild's face seems to have any interest in the movie .  murphy lends nothing to his character and poor goldblum looks as if he'd rather be someplace else .  some may argue that the movie has a message , but all that came across to me is that i could probably get more entertainment watching that informercial with the guy in the question mark coat .  at least he has something for us to laught at . . . 
pos@ as a devout atheist and an avowed believer in aliens , i have some idea of how ellie aroway ( jodie foster ) feels .  but because my reasons for not partaking in religion are different than hers , i can't say that i do exactly .  her reason is that she needs solid proof : there is no proof that god existed , so therefor she does not believe .  ellie also believes in aliens , and has spent most of her life trying to prove they exist .  how can she say she doesn't believe in god because of the lack of proof , and then say she believes in aliens , which are gereally less believed in than god without sounding like a hypocrite ?  that's the catch-22 .  when aliens from the star vega fax her some plans for a device to transport someone to them ( okay , well , they didn't really * fax * them . . . )  ellie wants to be the one to go , but because of her atheism she is denied the position .  how dumb is that ?  she discovers the transmitions , then she isn't allowed to go .  well , because of a bomb and a psychopath ( jake busey ) , she * does * end up going , but not in the way that we would've thought .  contact is based on a novel by carl sagan , who died during the filmmaking .  it is the best alien movie since close encounters of the 3rd kind , and will end up being the best film of the year .  its views of science and religion will no doubt aggrivate some , but will stimulate more .  i'm glad at least one movie of the '90s can portray aliens in a psitive light , rather than a bunch of slimey beasts who will eat your insides and then put on your body . 
neg@ an 18-foot-high , 43-foot-long dragon is the computer-generated co- star of this strictly-by-the-numbers sword 'n' sorcery flick .  as voiced by sean connery , " draco " is a surprisingly expressive creation who is well-deserving of his 23 minutes of screen time .  he walks , talks , flies , fries , and even fakes his own death , all with the help of 96 computer-aided animators .  too bad that ilm ( industrial light and magic ) couldn't spare some special effects for dragonheart's * human * co-stars .  a bearded black hole exists where dennis quaid should be .  he's a near-total loss as he growls glumly through his role of a disillusioned knight .  david thewlis' evil king has a high hiss factor ( hf ) , though he's more of a mumbling oddity than anything else .  oh , and there's some redhead in a '90's wig , who runs around either screaming or scowling , depending upon if the particular scene has her playing the woman in peril or the put upon peasant .  the fringe flourishes include pete postlethwaite as a wandering monk with literary ambitions , julie christie ( ! ) as the good queen mother , a band of mercenaries that appear dressed for ye olde heavy-metal concert , and , believe or it not , the speaking spirit of king arthur .  bring out your dead !  unfortunately , when we add it all together ( draco + fringe bits - quaid - thewlis ) , the sum total amounts to zero .  dragonheart is , well , too much of too little .  director rob cohen ( dragon : the bruce lee story ) has made a big , expensive movie that , while ambitiously plotted , is both murky and predictable .  and overscored .  and self-important .  and the list goes on .   ( i must ask : did screenwriter charles edward pogue intend that * every * character be stabbed , lanced , or sliced at least once ?  keep that man away from the knife drawer ! )  the last five minutes of this movie are the worst , with some silly celestial nonsense that would be laughed out of any planetarium light show , much less a summer movie .  save your money . 
pos@ you don't have to know poker to like " rounders , " but it might help .  that a great deal of this sharp little drama is set in the back rooms of new york's cardshark underground astoundingly doesn't limit its accessibility , even for those who can't tell royal and straight flushes apart .   " rounders " ' success , then , is owed to its proficient cast and intriguing portrayal of a world not many viewers will be familiar with .  the dialogue may be filled with terms that only true players will grasp , but you don't have to speak the language to understand the words - a statement that pretty much sums up the effectiveness of the whole show .  matt damon , fresh off his " good will hunting " hot streak , is perfect for the role of mike mcdermott , a young law student with a tremendous gift for gambling .  but after losing all of his tuition money in a killer high-stakes match with russian poker aficionado teddy kgb ( john malkovich , deliciously hammy ) , he shifts his focus to scholarly matters , leaving his true area of expertise far , far behind .  things change , however , when mike's old buddy worm ( edward norton ) re-enters his life - it seems worm , just out of jail , owes a hefty sum to nasty thugs , and is counting on his friend's superlative skills to help him pay off the debt .  that " rounders " ' story quickly molds itself into a conventional , predictable tale of redemption doesn't hinder its potency .  director john dahl , infamous for his neo-noirs " red rock west " and " the last seduction , " gets extremely convincing mileage out of the been-there , done-that plot mechanics by trumping up the relationship between mike and worm .  damon and norton bring so much to their roles that they'd be worth catching even if " rounders " ultimately folded , but the movie ups its fascinating ante by contrasting their wildly different ways of winning .  any sequence where the two men sit at the table together is an unarguable highlight .  if only the other character interaction was as successful , " rounders " might merit consideration when it comes time to number the year's best films .  current " it girl " gretchen mol is sweetly appealing as mike's girlfriend jo , aware and weary of his seedy past , but her scenes with damon number too few to be very effective .  john turturro's aging mentor and famke janssen's tempting siren , both interesting sketches , are hampered by the same limited screen time .  and as a wizened judge , the great martin landau makes memorable a role that's mostly a plot device - he's on hand mostly to sort-of save the day and provide a voice for " rounders " ' moral .  that moral , by the way , is " our destiny chooses us , " and it's something of a surprise when " rounders " supports this solemn proverb by eschewing the conclusion you might expect ; mike does learn from his mistake , but neither the mistake nor the way he learns from it is what it initially appears to be .  in the end , " rounders " sees gambling as less a mere addiction than a potential art form , but the poker itself is only a metaphor for a much larger picture .  the road to true fulfillment lies within the realization and exercising of your natural passions , the movie espouses , no matter what they might be .  here , low-rent lowlifes like worm just aren't cut out for the cards .  screenwriters david levien and brian koppelman entertain and educate in their quest to vividly render a culture that's often generalized by movies ; even complete poker neophytes should cross the line from observers to participants when the movie gets to its concluding game scene .  inside every adventurous filmgoer , there is a desire to be taken someplace new and exciting , and that's the precise allure of " rounders . "  it ultimately matters not that a few of our tour guides feel partially-realized or that the journey itself is cluttered with sites we've seen before , because the final destination is a satisfying one .  in the end , " rounders " holds a winning hand . 
neg@ susan granger's review of " the musketeer " ( universal pictures )  hollywood launches another assault on classic literature with this $50 million adaptation of alexandre dumas's novel that's strong on action but weak on drama , fusing hong kong martial arts with 17th century swordplay .  the story chronicles the adventures of the dashing d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) as he leaves his village of gascogne , headed for paris , to join king louis xiii's elite guard , the royal musketeers , and to search for the man who killed his parents 14 years earlier .  this puts him in conflict with the formidable febre ( tim roth ) , vicious henchman for conniving cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) .  the traditional musketeer trio - aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steve speirs ) - don't offer much help so he turns to the feisty francesca ( mena suvari ) , chambermaid to the queen of france ( catherine deneuve ) .  scripter gene quintano and director-cinematographer peter hyams are primarily interested in the derring-do , as evidenced by choreographer xin-xin xiong's elaborate - but not original - stunts , including a fast-paced stagecoach chase , a tavern brawl on rolling barrels , high-wire acrobatics with the combatants dangling from ropes , and a ladder-fight sequence .  filmed in southern france , the scenery , sets and costumes are spectacular , but the lighting is too dark and editing is filled with choppy , restless mtv'ish cuts .  as the swashbuckling d'artagnan , bland calvin klein model justin chambers buckles where he should be swashing , totally lacking on-screen charisma , not to mention acting skill .  mena suvari , so impressive in " american beauty , " seems like a contemporary interloper in the royal court .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the musketeer " is a cinematic but shallow 3 .   " all for one and one for all " ?  not this time 'round . 
pos@ synopsis : in this cultural exploration , a chinese american computer engineer named fang ( peter wang ) decides to take a month-long vacation to visit his sister mrs . chao ( shen guanglan ) , her husband mr . chao ( hy xiaoguang ) , and their teenage daughter lili ( li qinqin ) in beijing after 30 years of separation .  fang brings his asian american wife grace ( sharon iwai ) and his college-aged son paul ( kelvin han yee ) along , both of whom don't speak chinese .  the encounter between the two families allows the audience to compare the eastern and western cultures as well as the ambitions of individual characters .  opinion : sometimes a film is plot driven .  sometimes it's a character sketch .  a great wall ( 1986 ) can be called a culture sketch , as opposed to a character sketch because it gently compares a chinese american family to a beijing family .  fang's family is thoroughly americanized .  fang is an upper middle class professional who enjoys jogging and argues with his boss .  his wife can't cook chinese .  his son has a white girlfriend and complains of racism when fang encourages him to befriend an asian girl .  meanwhile fang's beijing sister advocates absolute loyalty to the 'work unit . '  her husband is a retired official who has heard rumors of american depravity ( homosexuals running the streets ) , and her daughter lili longs for american freedoms in a youth culture where studying for college entrance exams is the most important thing in life .  the two families spend a month slowly learning about each other .  there is no ultimate 'answer' or final comprehensive understanding after the month-long vacation .  the film is neither here nor there ; it's a neutral , meandering , gentle , portrait of life on both sides . 
neg@ fantastically over hyped , godzila finally lumbers onto the big screen .  the film opens with footage of nuclear testing on the french polynesian islands , then an attack on a boat from some beast , and finally we join dr . nick tatopoulos ( broderick looking about 17 years old ) doing some research in chernobyl .  some shady u . s government guys appear , and ask him to come to an island where they have massive footprints , from what looks like a giant lizard .  and what's more , this beast is heading for new york .  gulp !  although godzilla should be a non stop roller coaster ride , and at some points it is , there is something curiously uninvolving and unexciting about this movie .  the main faults lie with the acting and writing , common problems with 'summer blockbuster' movies .  broderick is pretty useless as the hero , with no humour or a 'tough guy' image .  while emmerich's previous summer flick , independence day ( 1996 ) had wisecracks and action from jeff goldblum and will smith , this has neither .  also , maria pitillo , as broderick's former girlfriend , is just as useless , with a chronic disability in acting .  she's incapable of showing emotion , speaks every line in the same way , and basically she's total crap .  it's up to french actor jean reno to save the day , and indeed he does , turning in a campy performance as a french secret agent .  shame he has such little screen time in such a overlong film .  hank azaria also turns up as a crazy cameraman named 'animal' , and he adds a little life to the picture .  also making an appearance is harry shearer ( probably best know for doing voices in the simpsons ) as a slimy news reporter .  o . k , so the acting is not up to par , but it never is in these movies .  but what about the script ?  well , that's not up to par either .  emmerich and screenwriting pal dean devlin seem so caught in the destruction of new york city that they forgot to write a script .  the dialogue is banal ( broderick looks at a lot of fish and utters 'that's a lot of fish . ' ) , and the character development is non existent ( reno plays the typical frenchman ( 'no croissant ? ' ) ,  broderick forever remains a geeky scientist . )  also , the film is seriously lacking a sense of humour .  the jokes that are uttered are pathetic , and there's an 'hilarious' running gag about siskel and ebert .   ( the mayor is mayor ebert , and is assistant is called gene !  ha ha ha ha ! . )  the plot is dire , and in the end just rips off jurassic park ( 1993 ) by having lots of baby godzilla's ( i . e .  velicorapters ) running around new york .  right , so the script and acting suck .  but what about the special effects ?  thankfully , they're are quite good .  godzilla is an impressive piece of cgi , although we don't see much of him because the movie is so dark .  the destruction of new york is pretty well done aswell .  but although they are impressive , they can't save godzilla from being an hugely disappointing and boring movie .  the movie goes on for far too long aswell , and it can't seem to decide on a ending .  and of course , the ending itself leaves possibility for a sequel .  let's just hope one never arrives . 
pos@ the long kiss goodnight ( r ) meryl streep tried it and failed .  even pamela anderson lee made an attempt but fell flat on her well-bared assets .  however , geena davis could very well become the first bankable american female action star with the long kiss goodnight , a preposterous but incredibly fun action thriller directed by her husband , renny harlin .  davis plays samantha caine , a mousy suburban school teacher and mother whose memories only go back eight years .  with the help of ethically questionable private detective mitch hennessey ( samuel l . jackson ) , she slowly remembers--and reclaims--her past as charly baltimore , tough-as-nails cia operative .  needless to say , with the reappearance of samantha/charly comes the appearance of an assortment of no-goodniks out to erase more than her memory .  shane black netted a cool $4 mil for his script ; i'm not so sure if his prose is truly deserving of such a hefty price tag , but for what it's worth , it delivers the goods .  like black's previous work , such as lethal weapon and the last boy scout , the script juggles some impressive action scenes with funny , quirky dialogue .  the humor especially works well in this case , for the story is so preposterous that the laughs help to keep things from taking things too seriously .  but there's no argument that the more unbelievable sequences are original and entertaining as hell : who can resist the sight of davis tossing her daughter from a hole in her house into the nearby treehouse or chasing after a car . . .  while ice skating ?  jackson and davis make a good team .  jackson is funny as ever as ever ; in fact , his spirited line deliveries , especially when he first appears , are more than reminiscent of his work as jules in pulp fiction .  as good as he is , the one who should benefit the most from this project is davis , who shows much promise as an action heroine .  what makes her so effective and why she should succeed where streep and lee failed is that she doesn't take herself too seriously .  she is obviously in on the joke , slyly taking jabs at herself and at the situation .  this is not to say that she doesn't need work--sometimes she lays on the " toughness " a bit too thick and comes off too much as a caricature .  but should the public embrace the film and , in turn , the notion of a kick-ass female , davis could have found her special niche .  it seems as if davis and harlin's first collaboration , the middling pirate epic cutthroat island , was just a dress rehearsal ( albeit a very costly one ) for long kiss , in which the wife-husband team hit their action stride .  anyone simply looking for a fun , escapist entertainment that requires little-to-no thinking will find this film to be a more-than-welcome kiss . 
neg@ the premise of this movie is , well , pretty far-fetched .  tom berenger plays shale , a mercenary who is temporarily out of work ( those fools at the cia have denied his existence just because he and his buddies botched a job in cuba ) .  fortunately , his girl friend ( diane venora ) , a teacher at christopher columbus high school in miami , gets her knee cap broken by a disgruntled student , creating a job opening for shale as a substitute teacher .  not telling his girl friend , who might object on pedagogical grounds , he creates a number of fake higher degrees for himself ( from yale , harvard , princeton , et al ) and begins his tenure as a high school teacher .  the students ( junkies , drug dealers , gang members , sleazy sluts , ice-pick wielders . . . you  get the picture ) don't really take to him right away , so he hits one in the face with a can and breaks a few fingers .  this gets their attention to a certain extent , so he tells them the story of the vietnam war : " see , some homeboys from the north tried to muscle in on the turf of the homeboys from the south . "  oh yeah , now they can dig it ; the problem is just that nobody ever explained it properly before .  but wait !  there are drugs being dealt in the school itself !  and behind the whole scheme , in cahoots with the head gang , the kod ( no , not " cod " , but " knights of destruction " . . . really ! ) , is none other than . . . the  upright , ex-cop principal , played by the forgotten ghostbuster , ernie hudson !  so shale does what any good teacher would do .  he gets his buddies together , they gather together a bunch of bazookas and other major weapons , explosives , and cool stuff like that , and they have a big showdown against the drug dealers and kod at the high school .  ok , so the premise is not just far-fetched , it's downright dumb .  if this were a hong kong action comedy , we might just accept it , but it takes itself far too seriously to be truly fun .  oh , it has its moments ; how one can truly hate a movie in which huge ( really huge ) amounts of cocaine are delivered in school busses ?  and to be fair , it is almost never really boring , as the action is interrupted by only short sequences of actual story .  but over all , this is pretty much a made-for-tv movie with more ( and bigger ) explosions and more foul language .  in fact , it reminded me of " miami vice " without the production values , babes in skimpy bikinis , and pastels .  if you can sneak into the theater without paying , go for it .  otherwise , wait for video .  the flying inkpot rating system : * wait for the tv2 broadcast .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
pos@ bruce willis stars as malcolm , an award winning child psychologist who discovers one night that one of his former patients is still suffering from inner demons .  the now grown man breaks into his apartment while he and his wife ( olivia williams from rushmore ) are celebrating his award , shoots malcolm in the stomach , then takes his own life .  almost nine months later , malcolm discovers cole ( haley joel osment , in a brilliant performance ) , another young man afflicted with the same turmoil as his former patient .  he takes on the child's case in the hope of redeeming himself for botching up the previous one , alienating his wife in the process .  he soon discovers that they boy can see and speak to the dead , and his life becomes forever turned upside down .  although the first hour is very slow , the sixth sense turns out to be a very powerful and moving film .  i was expecting this film to be mercury rising 2 , but was astonished to discover an extremely well plotted out little thriller with an outstandingly satisfying ending .  you'll find yourself mentally retracing your steps through the film to see if you actually saw what you think you did once the credits roll .  i must give m . night shyamalan a lot of credit for a brilliantly written screenplay .  the cast should also be given a lot of credit for making the movie as solid as it is .  a lesser cast could have made this film a joke .  bruce willis portrays his character perfectly , balancing his need to help cole and his agony over his strained relationship with his wife skillfully .  haley joel osment shines as nine year old cole , showing patience in his character that few young actors these days can pull off .  toni collette , looking markedly different from her pathetic character in muriel's wedding , gives a strong performance as cole's mother , who is trying to cope with both her son's " illness " and the passing of her mother .  finally , olivia williams deftly portrays a woman having to struggle with a husband who's not around and flirtations with a co-worker that could lead to a begrudgingly accepted end .  it's a shame that they show cole's abilities in the trailer , because the movie takes close to forty minutes to get around to doing the same , so we already know what's going on before most of the rest of the cast does .  in retrospect though , the forty minute set-up is essential to enjoying the end of the film , so i have fewer complaints now then i did while i was watching the film .  i'm glad that the run of teen-styled horror films has passed and filmmakers are starting to make more adult fare .  films like this , the similarly themed stir of echoes , and countless others to be released later in the year should make for a pretty entertaining close to 1999 .  [pg-13] 
neg@ the tagline on random hearts reads " in a perfect world , they never would have met . "  in a perfect world , i never would have seen this movie .  the biggest flaw is that 20 minutes into this film , kay chandler ( kristin scott thomas ) and dutch van den broeck ( harrison ford ) are the only two major characters alive ; resulting in little doubt that they will end up together at some point during the laborious two-hours-and-then-some production .  dutch is a sergeant in internal affairs at the district of columbia police department .  kay is a congresswoman from new hampshire .  although they both think they are happily married , their spouses are cheating with each other behind their backs .  dutch and kay are soon widowed when a plane goes down carrying their partners ; they subsequently discover the affair .  the rest of the film is the pointless , unrealistic and often-times boring story of their researching the sexual relationship that they were blind to , and getting to know each other in the process .  two sub plots are of little help to the already problematic film .  dutch is trying to arrest a fellow officer , a task that seems rather ordinary for hollywood fare .  all the great stereotypes get pulled , including my personal favorite of the key witness that makes bail and is murdered soon thereafter .  kay's distraction from the film's primary focus is her campaign for re-election and attempts to shield her 15 year old daughter from the truth about the father she put on a pedestal .  these sub plots could have made for semi-interesting points , but the film seems afraid to explore politics or mother-daughter relations in depth , and consequently suffers .  random hearts' two primary characters seem to live in shells .  although both kay and dutch are given their own sub plots , they seem to never deal with anyone other than themselves or each other .  there is plenty of opportunity , dutch having a partner and kay having close friends and her daughter , but the movie shies away from exploring these relationships .  veteran actor and director of this film sydney pollack , and critically acclaimed up-and-comer dylan baker both have cameo roles , but be careful not to blink too much or you will miss them both .  other than its weak plot , it is hard to criticize random hearts .  however , it is also hard to compliment it .  had the film taken some small risks and more fully explored its extra characters and plots it may have tasted more like a well frosted cake , rather than the dry one that equates to be . 
pos@ in 1994 , an insider's look at a scandal-ridden run for the democratic presidential nomination ( closely based on clinton's 1992 campaign ) was written anonymously ( former newsweek writer joe klein later claimed true authorship ) .  now , the book , primary colors , has been made into a movie , directed by mike nichols , and , in light of recent presidential scandals , seems to be more relevant than ever .  but the film is more than a diatribe against , or a paean in praise of , the president .  it is a fascinating look at the political machinery , and the ethical quagmire , that surround modern politics .  jack stanton ( john travolta ) is the governor of a small southern state running for the democratic presidential nomination .  he is charismatic , but has several flaws which threaten to doom his campaign , and strains his relationship with his wife , susan ( emma thompson ) .  the film is told from the point of view of henry burton ( adrian lester ) , grandson of a civil rights leader , who is swept away by stanton's ideals and helps to organize the campaign .  he joins political strategist richard jemmons ( billy bob thornton , looking an awful lot like james carville ) , and campaign advisor daisy green ( maura tierney ) .  governor stanton's past repeatedly pops up to haunt him , a fact that his chief rival , lawrence harris ( kevin cooney ) , consistently uses to his advantage .  to help clean up the stanton campaign , jack and susan bring in an old friend , libby " the dustbuster " holden ( kathy bates ) .  the acting throughout primary colors is superb .  it would be worth seeing the movie for bates' wild performance alone .  she enlivens the atmosphere with energy in a truly boisterous performance .  travolta does a fair clinton impersonation as governor stanton , although his accent does stray a little .  emma thompson delivers a strong performance as his suffering wife who can't let anything show that might hurt the presidential run .  the problem with political movies is that they tend to alienate over half of their audience by promoting one side or the other , or else the movie is vague to the point of boredom .  primary colors treads lightly on this issue .  though stanton is clearly portrayed as a democrat , and there are a few minor barbs thrown in the way of republicans , the movie touches on few actual political issues .  in fact , most of the " bad guys " are fellow democrats on the same road to the white house .  rather than issues , the film is primarily concerned about scandals and spin control .  although the film strays into some obviously non-clinton territory , it is difficult to completely separate it from reality ( particularly when certain scenes seem to highlight the president's current troubles ) .  primary colors' chief problem is its length .  it runs about 15 minutes too long .  there are some scenes which could have easily been cut .  for example , midway through the film , the candidate gives a speech to an assembly of laid off machinists .  the scene's only apparent purpose is to establish stanton's character , which has already been done in similar scenes earlier in the film .  the extra length isn't long enough nor tiring enough to be annoying , but it mars an otherwise excellent film .  republicans , democrats , and political agnostics should all be able to find something to like in primary colors .  it's a funny , and at some times shocking , look at the modern political process . 
neg@ john carpenter makes b-movies .  always has ( " halloween , " " escape from new york , " " the thing " ) and , by the looks of it ( " they live , " " escape from l . a . , " " vampires " ) , always will .  carpenter's latest horror opus with a science fiction bent ( or science fiction outing with a schlock horror bent ) is the aptly-titled " john carpenter's ghosts of mars " ( in case , i suppose , you went looking for someone else's " ghosts of mars " ) .  like all those films prefixed by the very possessive " john carpenter's , " " ghosts of mars " is an unashamed b-movie punctuated by a b-movie plot , b-movie actors , and b-movie special effects .  in category one , above , we have a storyline that borders on idiotic ( and , at times , chaotic ) .  dormant martians ( i . e . , swirling red gases ) awakened by meddling humans possess the souls of hapless mining colonists rendering them testy marilyn manson lookalikes .  all this explained ( in flashback ) to some grand pooh-bah counsel by martian police official melanie ballard ( natasha henstridge , from the sub- " species " films ) , the only returnee on a silly-looking train .  officer ballard went in to bring back incarcerated felon james " desolation " williams ; what she found was not a pretty picture .  in the second category we have ms . henstridge , her blonde hair pulled back tightly and awkwardly into a ponytail , ice cube ( as the appropriately-named " desolation " ) , pam grier ( briefly , oddly--who wanted to work with whom i wonder ? ) , and a host of extras all assuming that the story and special effects were going to carry this film and therefore they didn't need to try too hard .  in category number three we have , in addition to those swirling red gases and the silly-looking train , a couple of bird's-eye-view shots of a sprawling martian metropolis ( reddish also ) .  state-of-the-art special effects have never been a carpenter trademark and once again the writer/director ( who seems to have no problem finding work , however ) doesn't waste any of the film's budget in that department .   " ghosts of mars " is lock , laughing stock , and barrel all your standard carpenter fare : dingy interiors , cluttered exteriors , inane dialogue , lots of leather , scarred , crazed-looking aliens , and lots and lots of weaponry .  the film often and always explodes into warfare without warning--spontaneously , stupidly .  carpenter might like to think he's made a western here but it's a western without any real heroes , villains , or border conflicts .  it's just the shootouts minus a hissing snake plissken .  i never thought i'd miss the guy but i do .  it's not * all * the same , however .  dubbed the " one-note wonder " for his minimalist music soundtracks , carpenter seems to have graduated from simplistic ( yet effective ) scoring by highlighting his action with loud , screeching guitar work .  fortunately this drowns out a lot of the dialogue .  the final exchange between henstridge and , er , cube though is both audible * and * priceless .  mars has proven an infertile breeding ground for hollywood in the last year or so , what with the stillborn " mission to mars " and " red planet " ( with val kilmer ) .   " ghosts of mars " sadly adds to those disappointing returns ( in its opening weekend it was overshadowed by a bunch of sequels , among them " american pie 2 " and " rush hour 2 " ) .  the irony is that the mars in carpenter's film feels sadly absent .  there are occasional references to the red planet , of course , but the film might as well have been set in perth amboys than on earth's closest neighbor .  two things keep " john carpenter's ghosts of mars " from getting a huge slap upside the head .  1 .  henstridge keeps her top on ( miraculously ) , and 2 . the film doesn't pretend to be anything it's not .  what that means , however , is that fans of superior , intelligent , grade a sci-fi/horror are singularly out of luck . 
pos@ tempe mills cinema , az--this movie had us in non-stop stitches from beginning to end .  all those promotional clips that have been on tv for the past month came from the first five minutes of the movie .  if you thought they were funny , see the rest of the movie .  it's hilarious .  how does one go about making a movie about a couple guys whose only claim to fame is synchronized head-bopping on snl to exactly one song ?  easy .  write an interesting script around tried-and-true ideas , add some good lines and satire , and voil ? , you end up with an excellent , well-done , very entertaining flick .  will and chris are idiot brothers forced by their father to work begrudgingly in the family flower business during the day .  at night they pursue their life-long ambition to loose their virginity in failed attempts to get into the roxbury in beverly hills , ca , the only disco act worth going to .  the only problem , the place is so popular and the waiting line so long that by the time the brothers make it to the front door , the roxbury closes , all the while bearing witness to guys with one-hundred-dollar bills and movie stars like richard grieco who get past the doorman without fuss .  the script authors ( steve koren , will ferrell and chris kattan ) cleverly devised a way for our boys to get into the roxbury .  their flower-shop van is rear-ended by richard grieco , who fears a law-suit and is surprised to see the idiots are too star-struck to think about the car accident they just had , but not about getting into the roxbury .  grieco happily takes them in , even introduces them to the owner , which has the added benefit of enhancing the financial appearance of the idiot brothers in the eyes of a couple of gold diggers ( elisa donovan and gigi rice ) who bet their time and bodies on will and chris .  what follows are some of the best slap-stick dancing routines ever .  the music is superb , and could have only been made better had the producers added patrick hernandez's born to be alive .  the choreography at times was a parody of an era gone by , for example , the bee gees and their stayin' alive .  it is nostalgic for those of us who remember that far back , and the technique is a clever adaptation that worked well in forest gump .  one of the funniest scenes is when the gold diggers discover that will  and chris don't have any mone y , and dump both on the spot , even expressing violence and anger that they gave sex away .  an art-imitates-life poke at shallow women .  it's a scene that's an approximate parody of the vinegar's own rolf luedeke's editorial this week national organization for men ( nom ) replaces now .  ted " unabomber "  kaczynski , himself rejected for not having money , will identify well with this scene , if he ever watches the movie .  of course , the script wouldn't be complicated enough without adding molly shannon , the girl next door who has had a crush on will since they were kids , and who will has had an aversion to in quest of good-looking disco blondes ( proof that men will turn down perfectly good women when there are bay watch babes always lurking nearby ) .  nevertheless , will's father wants him to marry molly anyway , but thinks idiot chris is standing in the way and sends him into guest-quarter exile .  during the wedding ceremony , will's heart isn't exactly into getting married , and when his brother appears on the balcony with a ghetto blaster and more head-bopping music , will thinks worse of the knot-tieing idea and runs to chris .  definitely an snl parody of the graduate where katharine ross changed her mind for the screaming dustin hoffman in the church balcony .  i found this scene a riot , however , it went over brandi's head -- she was born seven years after the graduate first appeared .  the scene has a good punch line when molly shannon marries , instead , the step-in buddy/weight-lifter ( who looks like he could pass for the son of gary busy ) and who has been lusting for a good-looker for a long time , but ready now to take anyone .  more art-imitates-life stuff -- not even muscles can substitute for money in the real world .  the idiots' mother is played by loni anderson , whose barbie-doll looks  don't play well anymore ( she's a bit old ) , and whose cleavage looks like someone botched a tracheotomy too low down .  i recommend this movie for anyone who wants to have a lot of fun or in  need of a lot of laughs .  go with a date .  brandi laughed non-stop , as i  did , and a deaf-mute might have concluded i was tickling her continuously for 105 minutes . 
neg@ teenagers have a lot of power in hollywood .  every year countless films will be made targeting that audience in particular , and rely on the entire teenage population to turn out on friday and saturday nights , wallets in hand .  the formula is very simple , you make a film with a big name young actor or actress with sex appeal .  you add a high school environment that features everyone from prom queens to math club nerds , and then a very simple relationship conflict that can be worked out in 90 minutes , the typical teenage attention span .  the response is enormous as this part of the population will waste it92s money on almost any = film set in an environment they can relate to , and , most importantly , they don92t care to judge films=92 quality , so any piece of trash will = due .  that is just what never been kissed , the latest film from director raja gosnell , is ; trash .  josie geller ( drew barrymore ) is the youngest copy editor in the history of the chicago sun times .  she has her own personal assistant , unlimited supplies , and her own office .  but she is very much dismayed with her position in life .  there is nothing she wants more than to be a reporter and go out into the field , where she can play a more active role in the chicago media .  so when an assignment is quite literally thrown at her out of nowhere , she jumps at it with elation .  constantly smothering josie in the work place is her friend anita ( molly shannon ) and her amicable superior , gus ( john c . reilly ) .  the two of them are both stricken with horror upon hearing the news of her first assignment , as they both deem her to be an office worker and not a reporter .  however , since this film is aimed at a teenage audience with little patience for character conflict , this otherwise interesting scenario is resolved within two minutes , and josie is headed for the field .  obviously , the field assignment involves a high school .  specifically , she is to become an undercover reporter at a high school , by enrolling in the senior class and " becoming one of them . "  i don92t think that i = need to even begin to explain all the impossibilities of this situation ever occurring , so i won92t .  the movie develops into josie trying to find the life that she never led in high school .  interwoven flashback scenes show us just how much of a dork she truly was , and she appears to be heading down that road again .  fortunately for this lame production , other characters do appear that make some of these high school scenes both humorous and remotely interesting .  they include the predictable love stories , between both a student ( jeremy jordan ) and a teacher ( michael vartan ) , to show that josie is really two people in one body .  also , her younger brother and opposite , rob ( david arquette ) comes into her new found life and even causes a rare scene that is mildly provocative .  the humor found in this film is actually quite amusing .  typical for teenage films , it is chalk full of sexual innuendoes and condom humor .  one scene in particular features a certain classroom activity involving bananas and latex that is absolutely hysterical .  most of the other jokes are straight forward high school humor that anyone who has ever been to high school can appreciate and will enjoy .  but those still don92t = recover for the total lack of quality in this movie .  following this trend of high school movie rules , comes the general acting .  it is even worse than the trend of overplaying a scenario from film to film .  in this case , drew barrymore is absolutely painful to watch .  she is required to play her character on two levels , having some very black and white transitions .  and although some scenes are written to be particular shades of gray , she seems to hold that color throughout all of her screen time .  at one point she is alone with an obvious love interest on a ferris wheel , and is expected to him on an adult level , since he is one , her teacher .  but she never seems to get out of the gray area , and in doing so she makes a mockery out of his otherwise good performance .  following barrymore is the pitiful molly shannon ( saturday night live ) .  she seems to be limited to playing an ecstatic character that no one can relate to , and draws the attention of an audience as simply unrealistic .  it is these " qualities " that prevent the aforementioned condom scene from being one of the few decent .  luckily there is one great performance to emerge out of this otherwise bleak film .  david arquette ( scream ) takes home the prize for being able to stand out in an ensemble performance that is absolutely pathetic , and not have his brilliant acting ruined .  and as a central character he gets to take on his own mini-plot , which is one of the few well done parts of never been kissed .  in a dazzling cherry-on-the-sundae type piece of work , he does an absolutely hilarious tom cruise impression from the 1983 hit , risky business .  never been kissed is a mediocre film at best .  the predictable plot has become so overplayed in hollywood , that it is sickening to watch time and again , and this film is no exception .  the acting is just as bad , but there is the one positive presence of david arquette to add some light .  unfortunately , the bottom line is that the movie will be a success , because teenagers will pay to see any trash . 
pos@ warning : anyone offended by blatant , leering machismo had better avoid this film .  or lots of blood & guts , men against men and mano-et-mano stuff .  in other words , it's a walter hill film !  with a john milius script !  i always picture these guys getting together and producing a movie between arm-wrestling matches .  these films always contain male characters i have a very hard time identifying with , probably due to the likelihood that any meeting between them and me would result in my arm being ripped off and then my subsequent death by beating with said limb .  and we got tough guys galore , here ; drug-running banditos by the dozens , all dirty and sweaty and pretty ill-tempered , overall ; a secret task force of army commandos who are in the area to cover-up ( supposedly ) any connection between the government and the drug runners ; and lots of shit-kicking texas dirt farmers who'd as soon shoot you between the eyes as look at you .  in particular , we got nick nolte as one hard-ass texas ranger , powers boothe as the drug kingpin , michael ironsides as the leader of the secret army , and rip torn as the local sheriff .  torn is the sympathetic figure of the group ; he smiles before shooting anyone .  as to women . . .  well , i've never seen jane fonda or meryl streep in a walter hill film , and at this rate , i doubt i ever will .  women exist here to look good , comfort the man , and get argued over .  gosh !  just like the old days . . .  frankly , this is a pretty good movie , if you can accept the premise and can take the macho stuff .  the cinematography is excellent , the cast of characters is broad and has texture , the script is quite good , and the film lets you keep up with what's happening yourself , without spelling it out to you .  i appreciate a film that makes me have to think to keep up .  finally , there's lots of sam peckinpah slow-motion shoot-ups . 
neg@  " first rule of fight club is , don't talk about fight club . "  this quote deals directly with my opinion of this film , because quite frankly , it's not even worth mentioning .  director david fincher ( seven ) has completely gone over the edge .  with crude humor , an intolerable script and 2 hours and 19 minutes of pure torture , i'm surprised i didn't walk out .  this just goes to show that hype kills .  it's very rare that a film so hyped up as " fight club " turns out to be noteworthy , and this is no exception .  the story goes like this .  edward norton is an insomniac trying to enlighten his dull life by going to a variety of disease therapy sessions , until he meets marla ( helena bonham carter ) .  norton claims that she is wrecking his pleasurable lifestyle , when he spots her at a session that he also attended .  apparently the disease sessions help them see what life is like , literally living in pain .  why any person would think of such a thing is beyond me , but things do get worse .  norton is soon assigned to a job that calls for traveling , and it's on a plane that he meets tyler durden ( brad pitt ) .  the two men develop a bond , and go out to a bar , and by golly after they get drunk , the two pitiful characters fight .  how do they come up with this stuff ?  anyway , their fighting catches other pathetic loser's attention , and a club is formed .  out of all this mess , there manages to lie a message .  fincher shows us that society is like robots .  we work in our jobs doing things step by step , and want out .  our insanity gets to our brain and makes things worse than they really are , and we blame it on others .  call me crazy , but this is common knowledge .  i think fincher was acting as if the film is moodier and more poignant than it really is , which is probably one of the reasons it fails miserably .  even with two good actors , and a solid actress , they only manage to weaken the story .  i couldn't help but hide my face in shame when norton beats himself up into a bloody pulp .  it just shows how desperate the script is for attention .  i guess brad pitt was right for this role , because i felt like beating him up myself .  his bothersome and depressing character , made me disgusted at his 20 million fee .  it only showed me that he was in it for the money and nothing more .  helena bonham carter however really had no purpose .  she just popped up on screen , mumbled some lines , smoked and left .  this continues for what seems like 6 hours .  the film drags on and my headache gets bigger , while " fight club " nears what i think might be the end .  unfortunately by then , the film hits rock bottom .  though the conclusion kept my interest for a mere 5 minutes , it backs down again and continues to move at a snails pace .  on a side note , the trailer shows the only redeeming elements of the film , that coincidentally lasts the same amount of time that they did on the trailer .  fincher will hopefully regret making this film or at least learn a lesson .  concentrating on the atmosphere or a particular key moment , won't do any good if everything else is in need of support .  also , i'm afraid that immature men might respond to the film's violence .  the last thing the world needs is people praising a leader of a pointless cult .  when the film ends , i'm just glad to get home and take some advil .  you'll either enjoy what the film has to offer , or agree with ed norton when he says " this is so f * * * ing stupid . " 
pos@ the idea at the center of the devil's advocate , which is , thus far , one of the three or four best films of 1997 , is that no matter what decision is made , evil will triumph -- god is a trickster , satan is a humanist -- " the last humanist " .  he appears in many guises , and seduces many men and women -- in his own words , " vanity -- by far my favorite sin " .  al pacino plays this role with relish , and gets to chew some delectable lines ( " lemme givya a piece o' inside wisdom on god . . . " , " i have a million names . . . " ) , as john milton -- the devil .  the main idea -- that he can appear as anyone , in any form ( in this case , a buisness man ) , harkens mainly back to terry gilliam's the time bandits .  but the film , is something else , something original .  part of what makes it so very good , is that it never takes itself too seriously -- it dabbles with morality , vanity , death , and child abuse , but doesn't try to become any profound study of power .  this is a marvelous confection -- cocky , funny , thought provoking .  it is also entertaining .  there is no way you could possibly predict the ending -- it pulls back upon itself , drawing purely out of the mind's eye .  the final shot is more creative , more daring , more challenging , then anything in cinema since the white sock in the coen's fargo .  the central themes are fascinating ( sometimes reminiscent of james' the turn of the screw , and oates' accursed inhabitants of the house of bly ) , and the product that is built around it really wows .  its nice to know that things like this are still being made . 
neg@  " the beach " is a structurally confusing film that i can only describe has having multiple personality disorder .  every forty minutes of this two-hour film begins with a new theme , virtually discarding what has been set up in the preceding act .  it starts off purposefully as a film about an innocent man seeking new thrills in a dangerous environment .  but then in the second act , the mood of the film abruptly changes and it becomes a story about a love triangle on an idyllic island paradise that evokes visions of " blue lagoon " .  forty minutes later , the mood changes once more , and it becomes a dumbed down version of " lord of the flies " where an isolated community is discovered , where their moral code touts maintaining a sense of bliss at all costs .  by the time it's over , you can only scratch your head and wonder what this film was really meant to be about .  the main character of " the beach " is angst-ridden richard ( leonardo dicaprio ) .  he travels to the netherworld of bangkok where back alley merchants push their wares upon unsuspecting tourists and scantily clad women brazenly ask if you're looking for a good time .  richard's voice-over tells the audience that he has come to this place because he is bored with his life and feels that one way to reinvigorate himself is to let go of the familiar and to enter into a world of the unknown .  this seedy environment is just what richard is looking for .  he checks into a fleabag hotel where he meets the crazed daffy ( robert carlisle ) .  he seems like a raving lunatic , obviously high from heavy drug use and looking as if he is afflicted with some sort of psychosis .  though his jagged behavior would distress most of us , richard listens to him as he speaks of a mysterious island that contains the most perfect beach that anyone has ever seen .  moreover , the island itself flourishes with enough hemp plants that can make a small city high for life .  captivated by the idea , he asks two other hotel guests to join him on his journey .  they are worldly etienne and the alluring francoise , who have also come to thailand for reasons similar to richard's .  once they finally arrive at this paradise , however , the mood of the story shifts to richard's growing desire for francoise .  this particular plot point is weak at best because there is absolutely no question in my mind that francoise will wind up with richard .  etienne is about as exciting as fluffy , white sand .  it's odd that etienne never sees this coming , but paradise has a way of hiding potential threats just out of view .  and once the three stumble across the hidden community ( mood shift imminent ) , more events transpire that depict its hidden dangers .  for example , there are marijuana fields close by patrolled by armed guards .  and the lagoon in which they swim invites the occasional shark .  there are several ideas that are introduced in " the beach " and each one could merit its own feature-length film .  there's the man vs . nature angle , the love triangle angle , and the utopia-gone-awry angle .  but the film meanders so tremendously that its entire purpose becomes blurred .  dicaprio , as a result , has an almost impossible time of trying to embody the different states of mind that he and the film goes through .  consequently , the audience has an equally difficult time trying to keep up . 
pos@ not too many people know who james whale is , but it's a safe bet that a good chunk of them have seen his movies .  if we are to believe the semi- biographical gods and monsters , whale would have wanted it to be that way .  this is an insightful , haunting exploration of the last days of the frankenstein and bride of frankenstein director , and it is notable for introducing one of the first complicated gay characters in a hollywood movie .  gods and monsters has no interest in being a biopic of whale's life because it tracks only the final few days of his life , and it's probably a better movie for it .  it's focus is on whale's ( ian mckellen ) untraditional and deceptive lust for heterosexual gardener clayton boone ( brendan fraser ) .  it begins with whale ( a fairly talented artist , aside from being a director ) asking boone to " sit for him , " ( pose for a portrait ) .  at first , boone doesn't realize that whale is gay and grows fascinated with the old man .  when he does discover whale's sexual orientation from his dedicated and protective maid ( lynn redgrave ) , he is frightened , refusing to sit for the guy .  but he comes back , only to storm out again , disgusted with whale's " locker room talk . "  boone returns yet another time , after whale promises to tone down the aforementioned " locker room talk , " and finds their platonic relationship to be strengthening .  meanwhile , jimmy himself is suffering from hallucinations and mental attacks as a result of his stroke not long ago .  his ailment leads to desperation and depression , which build to the point where he is forced to ask boone for an incredulously big favor .  what is perhaps most sensational about gods and monsters is brendan fraser's bravura performance ; up until seeing this film i intensely disliked the young actor because of his tendency to ruin the movies he is in ( blast from the past , for example ) .  i was surprised how expressive an actor he proved himself to be here .  this is impressive because his character's dialogue is minimal , with mckellan doing most of the talking .  that requires fraser to act through body language ; a difficult skill to master , but something he proves capable of doing well .  this is not to ignore mckellan's oscar nominated turn .  he earned that nomination with his touching performance here ( although , at the risk of sounding like a philistine , i would have chosen his performance as the nazi in apt pupil for the nomination ) ; an understated , compelling gem .  whale dreaded being remembered solely for his work in the hollywood horror genre , and he thought hollywood to be the equivalent of a battlefield .  he rejoiced in being free from it , only reluctantly going to receptions with fellow movie people .  in the end , perhaps , it is what killed him : the memories of hollywood and war blending together to form a living nightmare .   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
neg@ capsule : the much anticipated re-adaptation of the pierre boulle novel comes to the screen as a dark and a little dreary film with lots of chases and fighting , but very little intelligence .  visually there is much to like about this version , but the approach is to take an adventure after the style of gulliver's travels and treat it as an action film .  that makes it a film without much center .   , 0 ( -4 to +4 )  pierre boulle , author of the bridge on the river kwai , wrote planet of the apes ( a . k . a . monkey planet ) , the novel , as a social satire .  it reads a lot like a fifth book of gulliver's travels .  humans discover a planet in which the roles of apes and humans have been reversed , not unlike the roles of horses and humans on jonathan swift's island of the houyhnhnms .  the novel moves somewhat slowly to create some suspense in revealing all the things most film fans know to be true about the nature of the planet .  it seems to me there is also a statement about human cruelty to animals , but perhaps i was just looking for that .  when rod serling adapted the novel into a film released in 1968 , he added a number of serling touches , familiar from episodes of the twilight zone and changed the ending to make it more serling-ish .  the final irony of the original version has become film history .  without it there could never have been a " planet of the apes " film series .  i can surmise only that serling ran into serious script problems in how to handle the tricky question of language .  in the book the apes had their own language and the human eventually learned that language .  that could have been done in the film , but that would have required the entire film to be subtitled for the non-ape-speaking .  serling avoided this by having the apes speak english and , of course , there is some justification for that by the end of the film .  justifying why the apes spoke english may have even been the inspiration for his surprise ending .  but serling never tackles the all-important question of why a supposedly intelligent human never shows any curiosity or even surprise that the apes speak his own language , a language they had no opportunity to ever hear .  few viewers questioned this serious plot hole , however , and the film has become well respected in cinema history .  partial credit at least should go to jerry goldsmith whose extremely inventive score is one of goldsmith's best if not his best .  when the film's success called for sequels , the filmmakers turned up the violence and they added well-intentioned , though not very subtle , political messages about what was happening in the united states of the 1960s and 1970s .  while the first film had a little shooting of guns and what was there seemed a little half- hearted , by the second film , beneath the planet of the apes , there was a good deal more violence and from that point on the series had a lot of violence and chases .  the series concluded with battle for the planet of the apes in 1973 .  now director tim burton tries his hand at adapting the original book again .  for those who thought that the 1968 version was not very faithful to the book , burton's new version is even less faithful .  first , he does not really reverse the roles of the humans and the apes .  he has them both be intelligent , articulate races battling for a dominance of the planet currently in the hands , uh , make that paws , of the apes .  that could be a good story too , but it is not planet of the apes .  as with the mission impossible films and so many other cinematic homages to the third quarter of the last century , the title makes promises that the filmmakers have no intention of honoring .  in 2029 leo davidson ( mark wahlberg , not this world's most expressive actor ) works on a space station increasing the intelligence and usefulness of apes .  then a convenient time storm sweeps him up wizard-of-oz-fashion and drops him on an alien planet .   ( yes , he survives this storm , but then no storm is perfect . )  he quickly finds , not greatly to any surprise he shows , that on this planet apes rule and humans drool , but everybody talks .  and the language they talk is earth- english .  apparently it does not even occur to leo that there is a mystery that needs to be explained about that .  the fact it does not occur to leo and apparently didn't occur to tim burton either is the heart of the real horror of this film .  both just assumed that if apes were going to talk the language they would speak would be english .  in any case having one talking race dominating another makes this not a look at human-animal relationships and more one of the master-slave relationships .  outside of sudan and a few other countries this is a less relevant topic .  leo is captured to be used as a slave but also is discovered by ari , played by helena bonham carter .  ari is an attractive ape with close ties to high political power .  she is bent on making the world a better place .  perhaps in a previous draft of the script she was called hil-ari .  in any case with makeup that stifles her usual pout , carter is just about as attractive as she has ever been in a film .  she may want to consider this to become her standard look from this point forward .  it is not long before leo escapes with some human and only a couple of sympathetic apes .  this is a further abandonment of the source material .  the chase severely limits the interplay of ape and human and the examination of each's place in this reversed society , each important in the book .  we cannot see how the society works because most of the screentime society has broken down .  we see the humans either separated from the apes or fighting them .  burton chooses visceral thrills over cerebral ones at almost every turn .  this is a miscalculation , as characters so lacking in empathy value are difficult ones to place much emotional investment in .  they are basically chess pieces and the viewer has little reason to root for them to win .  the 1968 script had little subtlety , with lines like " i never met an ape i didn't like , " but at least we cared for what happened to taylor , the main character .  most of what this film has to offer is in the visuals .  the visual work is spotty but generally nicely done except that so much of the film takes place in the night or in fog .  this tends to limit close looks at the makeup .  in general it seems much improved from 1968 .  the makeup team is led by rick baker instead of john chambers , who did it for the 1968 version .  in 1968 chambers makeup was a jaw-dropper .  it was realistic enough to almost be believable but flexible enough to show emotion .  chambers is good , but if anyone had a chance to best him it would have to be baker .  today audiences have higher expectations ; baker's visualization is really an improvement .  these visuals work nicely .  what does not work is the wire- assisted leaps some of the apes make .  they look like they were inspired by the physics- defying leaps of crouching tiger , hidden dragon .  apes spring incredible distances .  some of the best scenes are apes running into battle looking like they have ape posture , but when they start flying through the air the effect is lost .  one final visual problem is that the film frequently shows its budget in what should be spectacular battle scenes the camera shows us only a small group of people close-up .  since the days of lon chaney and boris karloff few actors have crossed over to stardom in a role that required heavy make-up .  the one actor who has a shot is paul giamatti .  it is not that his lines are so good , most are silly jokes .  but he delivers them very well .  he was always a watchable actor , but has not yet made stardom .  as the ape-trader limbo he over-emotes to overcome his ape make-up , but does it very well .  in doing so he makes himself the most interesting thing on the screen .  he is probably the best thing in the film and conjures up memories of peter ustinov's performance in spartacus .  as an in-joke there are several lines in the script borrowed from the 1968 film and an old ape played by charleton heston becomes an allusion to the first film by itself .  danny elfman's score has a nice primitive feel , but jerry goldsmith's 1968 tour de force score is a real classic .  that score and the whole film will be remembered when the 2001 film is forgotten .  i rate the remake 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
pos@ in brief : best bleak comedy film since heathers .  full of wonderful swipes at the fifteen minutes of fame mentality that feeds so much of modern american pop culture .  go see it !  so , i prepared for this film by watching a moving interview on " hard copy " with pam smart , the new hampshire media teacher who was convicted of engineering the death of her husband back in the 1980's .   " hard copy " 's diane diamond asked smart what she thought about nicole kidman's fictionalized portrayal of her in the new film to die for .  smart replied that she thought kidman's character came off as a dumb , vicious tramp and she thought that the publicity the new movie generates might just hurt her chances in her latest court appeal .   ( smart was convicted and given a life sentence for her part in the murder of her husband . )  smart's got a point .  it wouldn't be the first time that the public took the better scripted and well-acted movie version of an event as the absolute truth over the duller and far less artistic real life version .  however , given a choice between the mass media 'happening' of the real event and the fictionalized movie , i would definitely opt for the later .  real murderers rarely have dialogue as witty as what buck henry has written for this movie and smart , while pretty and alluring , is no match for the cinematic charms of nicole kidman .  to die for begins in a town called little hope , new hampshire , the archetypal dry and intellectually barren american suburb .  the story concerns the ambitious suzanne stone and how she tackles the obstacles between her and her life long ambition of being 'on tv . '  of course , one of those little obstacles turns out to be her dull and unambitious husband larry , played by matt dillon .  but , with a little imagination , some charm and raw sex appeal and a rather novel approach to junior achievement , our heroine manages to overcome the nay-sayers in her life , at least temporarily .  kidman triumphs in the trashy role of suzanne .  i have never really been all that fond of this actress but she shows a wonderful flair for comedy in this picture .  her portrayal of the incredibly shallow and dumb femme fatale resonates .  kidman knows a star-making role when she sees it and she plays the conscience-deprived suzanne as the ultimate career driven , post-feminist uber-temptress from hell .  she is ably abetted by wonderfully demented comic dialogue , which kidman delivers in a unselfconsciously funny way .  at one point suzanne is expounding on her knowledge of world events to her future husband and sister-in-law .   " you know , " she knowingly exclaims , " gorbachev would still be the leader of russia or whatever , if he had just had that ugly purplish thing removed from his head . "  her husband beams at suzanne's profound knowledge of world politics and then proudly proclaims that this qualifies her to be the next barbara walters .  this is very close to pop culture bashing heaven , folks .  the other standout performance in the film is delivered by joaquin phoenix .  he plays jimmy , a burned out teenager who becomes addicted to suzanne's sexual favors .  kidman's character , vapid though she is , is a sort of suave beacon of success to jimmy and his lost friends russell and lydia , winningly portrayed by casey affleck and alison folland .  phoenix looks like the very embodiment of gen-x slackerhood ( as envisioned by tabloid tv , of course ) .  his jimmy has the dead eyes and demeanor of a kid who knows that he ain't going anywhere , ever .  phoenix reacts to the sexy suzanne with a sort of obsessed amazement and he makes us believe that a loser character like jimmy really would be willing to kill for someone like suzanne , someone who actually noticed him .  gus van sant ( drugstore cowboy , my own private idaho ) direction is first-rate .  he keeps the pacing in this not-quite-thriller snapping along .  van sant rightly keeps the focus of this movie on the amoral suzanne and doesn't stop to proselytize the audience about the rightness or wrongness of her actions .  van sant trusts his material and trusts his audience to 'get it' without stopping to explain what is funny about this all-american story .  the screenplay , by buck henry , is absolutely great and includes some of the best bleakly comic lines i've heard since heathers .  henry's story is a blast against the shallowness of the american media and the mindlessness of fame , yet the screenplay delivers this sharp message by focusing on just a few characters .  henry ably manages to avoid diluting his story by aiming at too many targets and the result is a crisp and funny mini-classic .  danny elfman did the original music for this movie and he delivers another eccentric , loopy score that strongly echoes his themes for edward scissorhands .  either film score would make wonderful background music for halloween trick-or-treat parties .  all-in-all , a wonderful production , well worth your seven bucks !  to die for : a columbia pictures release directed by gus van sant .  written by buck henry score by danny elfman starring nicole kidman , matt dillon , joachin phoenix based on the book by joyce maynard .  rated r - for language and mature themes .   ( respect the r , not for under 14's ) rating ----- stars .  go see it . 
neg@ if you have ever seen fox tv's special car chase programs , you'll have a good idea about the content of ronin , the new action " thriller " from director john frankenheimer .  the film involves a mysterious briefcase , that several groups of terrorist want to get their hands on .  an irish women , dierdre ( played by the truman show's natascha mcelhone ) , hires a group of mercenaries to assist her in getting the briefcase .  among the people she hires are sam ( robert de niro ) , vincent ( jean reno ) , and gregor ( stellan skarsg ? rd from good will hunting ) .  dierdre's groups assignment is too seize the briefcase while the current owners are transporting it .  they accomplish this task , but a traitor is in the bunch and the briefcase is soon on the run again .  the briefcase stays on the run , as the movie leads the viewer through several plot twists that are badly executed .  the writer seemed to be attempting to make a smart action movie , but failed to understand that just because there are surprises , it doesn't add too the credibility of a senseless script .  the plot twists get no reaction because they come at a time where no one cares what is going on , after the apparent climax of the film .  but to add to the excitement , as i mentioned earlier , there are endless car chase scenes .  they are unrealistic and fail to add anything to the story .  don't get me wrong , i love car chases , but they were overdone and too long here .  we never do find out what's in the briefcase , but i doubt anyone cares by the time they finish sitting through this two hour long attempted thriller . 
pos@ if the current trends of hollywood filmmaking continue , we are probably five or six years away from the moment when the 1980s would become the next golden age of movie nostalgia .  although some hollywood products already use the last decade as a background for their stories ( mostly in ironic way , like grosse pointe blank and romy & michelle's high school reunion ) , some time should pass before the good memories of that era overcome the bad ones .  until that happens , 1980s would be remembered as the decade of greed , when the revolutionary ideals of 1960s turned into its cruel , materialistic opposite and the money became the only thing that matters .  contemporary movies are good in illustrating what was bad for the people who had to live in those times .  one of such movies , one that probably brings the essence of 1980s to the screen , is william friedkin's to live and die in l . a .  the money isn't just the symbolic motive in the film , it is the major elements of the plot .  rick masters ( willem dafoe ) is an ex-convict who used his artistic abilities in order to become one of the best counterfeiters in l . a . being too intelligent to fall into police traps , and ruthless enough to eliminate anybody or anything that could jeopardise his career , masters managed to elude law for years and became well- connected .  richard chance ( william l . petersen ) is a secret service agent , adrenaline junkie whose life gets new meaning after his partner got killed by masters .  however , his plans of bringing the counterfeiter down meet one obstacle after another .  finally he sets up a final sting , but his superiors deny him the necessary money .  being frustrated , and against the reluctance of his new partner john vukovich ( bill pankow ) , he decides to get the money by robbing underworld courier .  their plan backfires with almost tragic consequences when their target turns out to be undercover fbi agent , but chance decides to carry out his scheme anyway .  like french connection , one of his previous masterpieces , this friedkin's movie was inspired by real life .  gerrald petievich , author of the novel that later served as basis for his screenplay , spent many years working as a secret service agent .  that turned to be useful for the portrayal of that law enforcement agency , not much utilised by hollywood .  secret service millieu was also cleverly used in order to bring the viewer into the decade of greed ; the beginning scene where the movie's hero works as a part of presidential security detail is a nice opportunity to hear reagan's speech that could illustrate the political and economical notions of those times .  ultramaterialistic and egotistical view of the world is shared by almost any character in the movie .  willem dafoe brilliantly portrays dangerous and intelligent psychopath , whose ruthlessness and lack of any moral fibber doesn't seem like affliction in the reagan years ; on the contrary , those qualities actually makes masters socially acceptable .  compared with him , and all the other side characters that want their " piece of the action " , two heroes on the side of law seem like losers .  instead of being a classical good guy , secret service agent richard chance ( portrayed by william petersen in his most impressive role so far ) is nothing more than a lunatic whose adrenaline addiction and madness work against his better judgement ; his sidekick , who should serve as those " better judgement " is a weakling and sentimental fool that gets suckered in the end .  in such surroundings of moral decay , the not so happy , yet surprising ending doesn't seem out of line ( although the very last shot leaves too much questions unanswered ) .  the dark atmosphere of l . a . - city of glamour and moral decay - is nicely captured by william friedkin's directing skills .  the tight and realistic scripts with memorable characters ( portrayed by such capable actors like john turturro , dean stockwell , debra feuer , darlanne fleugel and steve james ) gave opportunity for friedkin to use another gimmick that made him famous in his 1971 masterpiece - great car chase .  that scene alone , with lot of realism , thrills and surprise twists , is worth seeing the rest of the film .  the soundtrack , provided by now almost forgotten band " wang chung " , is also one of the more memorable of that decade .  in every case , to live and die in l . a . is one of the rare movies in which hollywood actually tries to tell some unflattering truths about the world and succeeds in it . 
neg@ last summer , a feature-length version of the avengers hit theaters to the tune of a unanimous critical panning .  based on the famous 60's television show , the film was an enormous box-office flop and a huge disappointment for warner bros . a year later , the studio is up to their old tricks again , with the unnecessary revival of the robert conrad program the wild , wild west .  but it sounded promising : the same tag-team of star will smith and director barry sonnenfeld , who both contributed to make men in black such a financial success , is at the reins again .  and co-star kevin kline is attached to the project , as well as a substantial budget to spice up the special effects .  i mean , what could possibly go wrong ?  the answer is just about everything .  wild wild west is a cinematic abomination - a film that was so entirely pointless to begin with that it is never given a proper chance to get out of the gate .  there are a lot of fancy special effects , and a handful of distinguished actors who try desperately to tunnel through the inane plot and make a lasting impression .  but the script is so deliriously uneven , the entire movie so off course , that no human being or technical achievement has a chance to salvage it .  at square one , we have a bizarre case of casting .  will smith plays james west , a renegade cowboy who was originally played by white actor robert conrad in the tv series .  my guess regarding the casting of african-american smith is a simple one : the actor + a cozy summertime release = big bucks for all those involved .  smith is a very talented performer who usually brings swift assurance to any comic relief material , but this is not an ideal role for him .  he's too much of a joker .  i heard that initial casting included george clooney in the lead role , and frankly , that sounds a lot more plausible .  what makes matters worse is that smith goes through the role with such self-assurance in his eyes ; you can practically sense his contentment with the fact that he knows wild wild west will be a huge hit at the summer box office .  the plot involves west and cross-dressing government agent artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) , who are assigned by the president to recover a group of kidnapped scientists .  the trail leads to the diabolical dr . arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh ) , a man with no lower body who speaks in a dry , witty southern accent .  loveless has taken the country's top technical minds hostage so that they can assist in his deranged plan of total government control , using lethal superweapons to destroy entire towns .  one such weapon is an 80-foot mechanical tarantula , bearing eight spindly legs of thrashing metal and spewing enormous fireballs left and right .  the visual effects that bring this metallic bug to life are spectacular , seamlessly blending computer-generated imagery with the western surroundings .  unfortunately , all of these effects seem so detached from the story , and can do little to support the film's plot deficiencies , which are undoubtedly the main problem .  wild wild west is a running gag that never truly works .  most of the jokes , usually care of smith , die on arrival .  if it's one thing that could possibly be the saving grace , it's the performances , and even they are mostly off-kilter and poorly delivered .  kline is admirable , but he has little to do but invent silly devices on the spot .  salma hayek is wasted as the romantic interest , because she is viewed as little more than that - window dressing to look pretty and create conflict between west and gordon .  branagh , an esteemed shakespearean actor and director , adds marginal enjoyment to the film .  but even he is so utterly weird and over-the-top .  rarely is a film so lost in itself as wild wild west is .  i suppose there's always one turkey of the summer season ; a highly anticipated , big-budget release that manages to completely disappoint .  wild wild west is such a movie , and will probably go down as one of the biggest disappointments of 1999 .  but it is highly unlikely that this will go down in defeat at the box office .  perhaps after this , audiences will be less assured when they see will smith's name stamped on a summer movie .  after such hits as independence day and mib , wild wild west is not an impressive addition to the resume . 
pos@ plot : jet li is a chinese cop asked to help some french policemen nab a bad guy .  but one thing leads to another , and the next thing you know , li's being chased by the same french cops with whom he was supposed to be working .  a lot of ass-kicking , face-whippings , gun fights and . . . okay , a little more ass-kicking ensues .  critique : very cool !  now here's a movie that gives you exactly what you're looking for , if what you're looking for is kickass action , a palpable good cop/bad cop story line , some hardcore stunts and jet li slam-dunking everyone in sight !  the film also moves fast ( a mere 95 minutes ) , develops a certain " cute " chemistry between fonda and li , has nice surroundings ( paris , baby ! ) and gives us one of the best bad guys that i've seen all year .  tcheky karyo is the devil incarnate in this film .  he is pure evil .  they should have called this movie bad lieutenant 2 as keitel has nothing on this man .  what a great , great monster !  my favorite line of tcheky's was when li was explaining the whole " kiss of the dragon " thing to him and he cut him off by saying " kiss my ass ! "  pure action movie poetry .  anyway , other than him , jet li also handled his " acting " pretty well in this film , with very little real dialogue to say , but enough to make us believe his character .  actually , just looking into the man's eyes generally tells you a lot .  fonda was also pretty good , despite playing one of the most trashy and abused women that i have seen in quite some time , but i still felt kinda bad for her , so i guess she did her job okay .  but in the end , nobody goes to see this kind of movie for oscar performances .  we go to see jet li movies because we want to see jet li kicking a lot of ass from side to side , and this film delivers gangbusters on that front .  and yes . . . they have no wire-fu in this movie . . . i  say again . . . no  wire-work , no bullshit stunts with li floating around in mid-air for over a minute .  it's all straight action , fist to fist , boot to face and all around cool stunts .  if that's what you're looking for , i don't see how you will be disappointed with this film .  yes , it's not very original in plot ( just take luc besson's own la femme nikita and mix in plenty of his own the professional et voila ! ) , does have an annoying hip-hoppy soundtrack that just got on my nerves after a while ( i also would have gotten rid of the whole acupuncture thang . . . ) and will have anyone not willing to restrain their disbelief , rolling their eyes all over the place .  but was i entertained ?  thoroughly .  does the film feature more gunplay , martial arts and over-the-top kills that most recent action flicks ?  yes , again .  does this sound interesting to you ?  well , the answer to that question is entirely up to you .  one thing that i would definitely recommend is , as jet li pointed out himself on his website , that you leave the kids at home for this one .  in fact , you might even wanna leave yourself if you can't handle the more violent of sequences .  all in all , a rippin' , roarin' fun time !  where's joblo coming from ?  black mask ( 5/10 ) - blade ( 7/10 ) - la femme nikita ( 8/10 ) - lethal weapon 4 ( 7/10 ) - the matrix ( 8/10 ) - the professional ( 9/10 ) - romeo must die ( 3/10 ) - rush hour ( 7/10 ) - shanghai noon ( 6/10 ) 
neg@ this season needs another serial killer movie like kathie lee gifford needs more public devastation .  but lo and behold , here comes " switchback , " and fast on the heels of such stalker fare as " kiss the girls " and " i know what you did last summer . "  but " switchback " is an undoubtedly weak genre entry , as the material it covers is old and tired , and the filmmakers rarely sustain enough energy to make any of the proceedings interesting .   " switchback " opens with the murder of a babysitter and the abduction of the young child she's watching .  we learn late in the game that the kid belongs to fbi agent frank lacrosse ( dennis quaid ) , and that the kidnapper/killer is a nameless fiend that lacrosse has been tracking across the country for quite a while .  he is promptly removed from the case , but this conflict of interest doesn't keep him from offering pursuit .  lacrosse's most recent trek takes him to a blood-soaked hotel room in amarillo , texas , where the local sheriff ( r . lee ermey ) is torn between his re-election campaign and helping his new ally catch his man .  in a related aside , former railway worker bob goodall ( danny glover ) is cruising through the snowbound west in his pinup-plastered ( even on the seatbelts ) el dorado .  along the way , he picks up -- and subsequently saves the life of -- hitchhiking loner lane dixon ( jared leto ) .  this tangent isn't a random one , as bob or lane will end up either holding a piece of the puzzle or turn out to be the killer himself .  or is the villain in fact lacrosse , only pretending to be after the cold-hearted murderer he knows so much about .  in a sense , that's half of the basic problem with " switchback . "  for its first hour , the movie presents evidence that any of these three men could be the perpetrator , so we're given little insight into who they are , likely for fear that we'll learn too much too fast and therefore be able to make the proper deduction .  but " switchback " then decides to explicitly reveal the killer's identity at its midpoint , and the following contradictory character motivations muddle both the pacing and the generation of suspense .  some of the acting is a burdensome area as well , probably because the performers were instructed to build personas that are the exact opposite of their true selves .  what is danny glover doing here , grinning and yeehawing his way through the messy plot ?  and dennis quaid ?   ( that monotone -- stop it ! )  ermey is solid in a supporting role that's more interesting than the two leads thrown together , but the charismatic leto ( claire danes' object of affection in " my so-called life " ) is a scene-stealer tried and true .  >from a material standpoint , " switchback " is pretty empty .  but even when first-time director jeb stuart ( who wrote " the fugitive " and " die hard " ) doesn't know what to do , he knows what he wants it to look like -- the movie provides some great visuals .  the set-on-a-train climax looks good ( even though the action is illogical ) , and the beautiful , crisp cinematography captures the rockies in all of their icy splendor .  still , that's not enough to turn a lump of coal into a diamond , and more than the movie's look will end up leaving you cold . 
pos@ every once in a while , a film sneaks up on me and takes me completely by surprise .  i don't necessarily mean in terms of quality ; rather , i'm referring to the mere knowledge of its existence .  usually i know what films are on the way a year in advance , but two weeks ago i had never heard of princess caraboo .  it has slipped rather quietly into limited release , and appears destined to slip out just as quietly .  that's a shame , because princess caraboo is a delightful fable , romantic , gentle and very appealing .  what's more , it's surprisingly insightful and provides a sharp-witted lesson in english social history .  princess caraboo is based on an actual event in early 19th century england , involving a young woman ( phoebe cates ) who is found wandering the countryside .  apparently unable to speak any english , she is taken in by good-hearted gentlewoman mrs . worrall ( wendy hughes ) .  her banker husband ( jim broadbent ) is none-too-pleased about this strange houseguest , until the worralls begin to believe that the woman may be royalty from an east indian island , the princess caraboo .  this development inspires plans for a lucrative trading venture for mr . worrall , and an introduction into elite social circles for mrs . worrall .  however , local journalist john gutch ( stephen rea ) is not convinced that the woman is what she seems to be , and sets out to find out the truth about princess caraboo .  as a social satire and comedy of manners , princess caraboo is a winner .  it takes place in an era when it was common practice in england to jail vagrants and hang beggars , and that practice comes in for an obvious hazing .  but it is handled most effectively through the character of mr . worrall , a drunken womanizer whose bank is in deep trouble thanks to his corruption and ineptitude .  he is worse than one of the idle rich ; he is one of the actively odious gentry so eager to distance themselves from the lower class they think nothing of simply eliminating them , and since the house and money are all from mrs . worrall , he is a bit too close to them for comfort .  while hypocrisy is an easy target for ridicule , director and co-writer michael austin keeps the treatment too light-hearted to be heavy-handed .  he also takes a unique stab at the trendiness of the upper classes , as the princess becomes a " sensation " at court .  in one of the film's best sequences , princess caraboo is the guest of honor at a party hosted by the prince regent ( a wonderfully foppish turn by comic john sessions ) , and the lords and ladies end up following her around in a thoroughly silly native dance .  it is then that princess caraboo shows how easily people are swept up in " sensations , " an idea that takes on a timeless quality ( and makes the film an interesting companion piece to the current quiz show ) .  social commentary aside , princess caraboo is simply an eminently enjoyable entertainment .  the performers are mostly delightful , particularly phoebe cates , who is radiant in a part that requires a gift for pantomime .  her supporting players are also appealing : wendy hughes as the patient and kindly mrs . worrall ; kevin kline as frixos , the worralls' suspicious and superior greek butler ; stephen rea as the world-weary but ultimately romantic gutch .  only john lithgow is a disappointment , turning in a limp performance as a scholar who attempts to verify the princess's identity .  the story twists and turns just enough so that the question of whether or not the princess is really a princess is always in some doubt , without becoming gimmicky .  it is unfortunate that the growing attraction between gutch and princess caraboo isn't given more time to develop , because the potential seemed to be there .  when it finally does blossom , it seems too quick to be plausible .  princess caraboo is patient enough in establishing its sense of time and place that it might seem a bit slow to viewers seeking a fantasy romp .  still , it has both escapist and intellectual appeal , and is well worth seeking out .  it is the kind of film that makes my job its most rewarding--a hidden gem . 
neg@ a life less ordinary ( r ) while the extremely peculiar a life less ordinary does live up to its title , a more appropriate moniker would be a movie more misguided , for this confused , confusing attempt at romantic comedy is a most disarming disaster from the talented trainspotting team of director danny boyle , producer andrew macdonald , and screenwriter john hodge .  at the core of this strange film is a fairly basic--and , yes , ordinary--premise .  after robert ( boyle regular ewan mcgregor ) , an aspiring writer of trashy novels , is fired from his janitorial job at the naville corporation , he kidnaps naville's ( ian holm ) spoiled daughter celine ( cameron diaz ) and holds her for ransom .  the joke here is that celine is a willing victim--her father threatened to cut her off financially , so she wants revenge--and that she soon becomes not only an accomplice but the brains behind the scheme , teaching the inept robert a thing or two about kidnapping . . .  and , ultimately ( didn't we see this one coming ? ) ,  love .  so far , so mediocre .  but mediocre is better than dreadful , which this film is , thanks in no small part to the hodge's contextual frame for the romance .  it turns out that god is displeased with the divorce and romantic breakup rate on earth , so the chief of heaven's police , gabriel ( dan hedaya ) dispatches two angels , o'reilly ( holly hunter ) and jackson ( delroy lindo ) , to earth to hook up celine and robert--or lose their angel status .  this conceit might have worked if the angel dimension played an integral role in the entire picture .  but it could have easily been cut without any clear loss to the film ; as it stands , it is simply a waste of time that distracts from the romance at hand .  not that there is much of a romance to begin with .  try as diaz and mcgregor may , celine and robert are too one-note to become very endearing characters .  celine is rich bitch ; robert is a dullard .  as such , it is quite hard for the audience to really connect with these two--then again , they never seem to really connect with each other .  when celine and robert start to overtly act on their " feelings , " it comes off more like something scripted than anything natural .  but i am not exactly sure if boyle and company's point was romance ; honestly , i am not exactly sure what they were trying to accomplish .  boyle juices up the visuals with his characteristic razzmatazz , but it remains just that--energy , not energy in service of a story or even acting .  the cast seems lost , especially hunter , whose performance is so adrift as to be baffling .  and then there are the many eccentricities splattered onto the film : some violent confrontations involving the angels , who are not exactly angelic--in fact , they end up staging their own ransom scheme ; some mystical hokum in the climax ; and a cutesy claymation epilogue .  watching much of a life less ordinary is like being trapped in indie hipster hell , stockpiling quirks in the name of cool .  instead , the film just gives quirky a bad name .  my best guess as to what the filmmakers wanted to accomplish is an atmosphere of warped womantic ( yes , misspelling intended ) whimsy , which comes through in only one scene : an extended musical number where celine and robert sing " beyond the sea " at a karaoke bar .  after a verse or two , the couple are magically dolled up in snazzy outfits and hairdos , and engage in a spirited dance routine on the counter .  the scene works not only because of its relative simplicity but also because it does not try too hard , just relying on the innate charm of the leads , allowing them to build a romantic rapport .  alas , not nearly enough is built , for this moment comes to an abrupt end .  i applaud any attempt to bring something fresh and unique to movie houses , but sometimes even cleverness can reach overkill .  a life less ordinary certainly delivers something " different , " but by the time the film was over , i was clamoring for a life more ordinary .   " i can accept failure .  everyone fails at something .  but i can't accept not trying .  it doesn't matter if you win as long as you give everything in your heart . "  --michael jordan 
pos@ when 17 year old beau hall ( jonathan tucker , " the virgin suicides " ) gets in a car accident after drinking with his 30 year old companion , club owner darby reese ( josh lucas , " session 9 " ) , his mom , margaret ( tilda swinton , " the war zone " ) pays reese a visit to convince him to leave her son alone .  instead , reese travels out to their lake tahoe home and lures beau out to the boat house where beau learns that his mother was right about reese .  the next morning margaret discovers darby's dead body on their beach and , suspecting the worst , weights it down in a distant part of the lake .  but her troubles are just beginning , as she soon learns with the arrival of blackmailer alek spera ( goran visnjic , " practical magic " ) in " the deep end . "  the incredibly pale , red-headed scottish actress swinton immerses herself into the role of the reserved american super-mom whose life revolves around serving the needs of her three children and live-in father-in-law jack ( peter donat , " the game " ) .  she shows great strength while allowing other emotions to glimmer through - discomfort at challenging reese in his gay disco ( named the deep end ) , near panic at having to dive down to his body to retrieve car keys , or even wry humor when an attempt to get help from jack becomes hopelessly miscommunicated .  gradually her loneliness becomes apparent ( her husband's a naval officer , usually away at sea ) when her attempts to email him her concerns about beau are deleted and later , when a most unusual , yet chaste , romance turns tragic .  it's a terrific performance .  the stendahl syndrome-like script , adapted from elisabeth sanxay holding's 40's noir novel 'the blank wall' by directors scott mcgehee and david siegel , would be unbelievable if not for swinton and her costar visnjic .  alek spera is a wrong side of the tracks loser who arrives after reese's body has been discovered .  he shows margaret a videotape of beau having sex with reese and demands $50 , 000 or he'll turn the tape over to the reno police .  subsequent visits will turn his mind set upside down and backwards , though , as he comes to admire and even love the woman he set out to blackmail .  there's yet another problem , though - his partner nagle ( raymond barry , " dead man walking " ) is a harder cored criminal who won't let up until his share of the money is delivered .  visnjic's dark , brooding turn has an interior shading to it that makes us believe he's a victim of circumstance and environment .  his turnaround is palpable as he witnesses margaret's inherent decency and her workaday surroundings .  also outstanding is tucker as beau , who has a terrific character arc and pas de deux with his mother .  initially beau's the typical sullen teen .  'you're blowing this out of proportion , ' he says of her concerns about reese , not comprehending that his mom has enough insight to have divined the true nature of the relationship .  as his mom gets in deeper and deeper trying to cover up a crime he didn't commit , beau becomes suspicious of her actions and apparent new companion , turning tables .  his early black eye becomes her later split lip .  while the two can never be completely honest with each other , their love for each other comes through strongly .  the directors ( " suture " ) have a firm grip on their material and cast .  the story builds perfectly with bold strokes amidst a myriad of subtler underpinnings .  water imagery is constant ( an early shot of weirdly rushing green is revealed to be a young boy cleaning out an aquarium ) .  giles nuttgens ( " fire " ) cinematography , which won the 2001 sundance festival award , is crisp and startlingly clear .  the tahoe locations and production design by kelly mcgehee and christopher tandon provide a dual personality for the film , contrasting the calm , well off existence of the lake against the gambling city of reno .   " the deep end " is a complex story of domino deeds and shifting relationships .  take the plunge . 
neg@ starring ben stiller , elizabeth hurley , maria bello , janeane garofalo screenplay by david veloz , based on the novel by jerry stahl directed by david veloz  permanent midnight is a pretty bad movie , though it took me a few days to conclude this .  the film is more masturbatory than bleak , with its main character intent on confounding us with his stupidity .   ( he has a $6000 a week drug habit . )  ultimately , as adapted by veloz , jerry stahl comes off as one of those playground braggarts who chainsmokes at the age of twelve ; you are less mystified by his self-destructive nature than bored into a stupor yourself .  ben stiller plays stahl , a young author who arrives in l . a . with ambition and a nasty drug habit .  he eventually gets a gig for $5000/week writing for a sitcom called mr . chompers ( a thinly veiled stand-in for " alf " : chompers looks just like alf except he's blue ) , marries a producer ( hurley ) so she can get a green card , and hooks up with a spanish mother ( liz torres ) , who shoots heroin with him in the afternoons .  insert proverbial downward spiral here .  permanent midnight is structured mostly as a flashback , with recovering addict bello meeting stiller ( at a fastfood restaurant , where stiller works the drive-thru as part of rehab ) , taking him back to a hotel , and between bouts of serious screwing , listening to his life story .  i've spent the last week trying to figure out why stiller never seemed to find the frighteningly gorgeous hurley attractive-worse , i've been trying to figure out why hurley did find stiller attractive .  as stahl , stiller displays none of the charm or wit one would expect ( post-there's something about mary ) of either the actor or a comedy writer .  what separates stahl from the hundreds of other hollywood punk-junkies , it seems , is that stahl wrote a book about his idiocy .  watch stahl shoot heroin next to a baby !  watch stahl spoil numerous pitch meetings with smack-fueled babble !  stiller gives a technically flawless performance : the film could double as a documentary on how to be a junkie .  but permanent midnight is mostly soulless .  when the movie poses the question will stahl be saved ?  and then answers it in the form of bello's character ( basically a shrink in black panties ) , could a person care less ?  in the film version of his autobiography of the same name , stahl doesn't need saving , he needs someone who will sit there and listen to him go on about himself .  if you learn anything about the other characters in this movie , it's that they are the most incredibly tolerant hollywood-types known to man .   ( stahl also seems to be the only person at schmooze parties doing drugs .  is this hollywood . . . california ? )  i learned very little about the entertainment business from permanent midnight and a whole lot about an egotistical lunkhead .  of course you know that stahl triumphed because he lived to talk about his problems .  so , basically , his drug habit got him a book deal , a movie based on his life , and now he's apparently collaborating with stiller on future projects .  so much for the moral of that story .  temporary midnight is more like it .  -bill chambers ; september , 1998 
pos@ as i write the review for the new hanks/ryan romantic comedy you've got mail , i am acutely aware that i am typing it on a computer and sending it a billion miles away on the internet .  i am also aware that i have just spent the last 2 hours watching the world's biggest paid commercial for america online .  and i wonder : is that so bad ?  well , the commercial part is .  as for the movie , well , as long as i can watch tom hanks and meg ryan , i think i'll be okay .  to paraphrase james berardinelli , whose reviews i admire very much , tom hanks and meg ryan can act .  they are both wonderful , but for all of hanks' glorious work in serious films , such as his magnificent performance in saving private ryan , and his glorious triumph in philadelphia , i like him best when he's suitably obnoxious .  tom hanks is wonderful when he is obnoxious in a romantic comedy when he's going to get the girl : the only question is how ?  meg ryan , america's high school sweetheart , can act .  she's had a handful of memorable performances , including the great scene in the diner in when harry met sally ( i must not mention what she does , due to the , well , um , you get the idea , and if you don't , get the movie-- fantastic ) .  but , i like her best when she's , well , perky .  she is so adorably perky/cute that together with hanks , they are the most amazing onscreen duo in my short lifetime .  some people have them going back to really old classic romantic couples , but i don't really know .  all i know is that i just like them both .  they have such wonderfully kinetic chemistry that's really hard to resist , and i'm not going to even try .  they're just really , really cute , sweet , and charming .  hanks and ryan collaborate once again with nora ephron , who directed them in the megahit sleepless in seattle .  here , the setup is a little different .  kathleen kelly ( ryan ) owns a small children's bookstore which her mother founded 42 years ago and passed down to her .  she is successful , beautiful , and dates a well-known columnist with very radical idea ( kinnear ) .  she is also having an affair , of sorts .  you see , kathleen , with the handle shopgirl , is secretly emailing ny152 .  they have a strictly un-detailed relationship : there are no specifics , and they have no idea who each other is .  ny152 happens to be joe fox ( hanks ) , a multimillionaire bookseller who is the heir to the fortune of the fox chain of mega-bookstores , run by his father ( coleman ) .  fox books has decided to open a store on the west side , right across from a little children's bookseller named " shop around the corner " , run by a perky girl named kathleen kelly .  every morning , these two email each other silly , and every day , they fight " to the death ! ! " .  it's a charming premise , and one that works nicely , balancing the immense troubles kathleen is in with the romance she wants to have .  it also has the great sense of being a classic romance : there is no " let's have sex tonight " mantra , if you'll excuse my bluntness .  this is a solid romance built around that vague concept of love .  hmm . well , the movie goes through twists and turns , having some sad moments and happy ones , until at one moment tom hanks and meg ryan " hook up " , to use modern terminology , and kiss their way into happiness .  you know it's going to happen , the question is now ?  thankfully , ephron has a wonderful supporting cast with posey , kinnear , chappelle , and a host of others , including a great scene involving brothers , aunts , and two sweet kids .  it's all cute and wonderful , and for all of the idealism , it makes me feel good .  hanks is as obnoxious as ever on the outside and as warm on the inside as he always is .  he is , i believe , america's greatest actor .  does he show it here ?  nah .  but he's still tom hanks , and she's still meg ryan .  which is what this movie boils down to .  it's pure confection .  all the bits about the godfather , the jokes , the superb script , it's all really sweet .  there are some immense flaws , like pacing .  the last third of the movie really doesn't work as well as i would have liked , and for a romantic comedy , it's slow .  once hanks knows the secret , it gets really slow .  i even looked at my watch a couple times , to make sure ephron was going to deliver the big onscreen kiss i was waiting for , so that i could get home at a reasonable hour .  the other problem is that this movie is shaping up to be really dated .  e-mail ?  when my kids are my age , i don't know what we'll be using .  but hanks can do more with one eyeroll than anybody , and meg ryan just loves to dive into a pillow better than anyone in movie history .  they just work together , and it's nice to see .  it gives you , well , a smile .  the script helps with some great lines that are absolutely hilarious , and that always come at the exact right time to keep the audience awake .  i was arguing with my father on the drive back home on what the purpose of movies was .  i've always believed that movies are very powerful , very powerful indeed .  you see , mankind has three abilities he needs to survive : the ability to think , entertain , and procreate .  movies can definitely do the first two , and as for the third , well , i'd rather not think about that .  i always thought films that made you think enlightened you and made you see something from another viewpoint , and that films that entertained you were good , because you forgot about your troubles and thought about something nice for a night .  and i was thinking about how incredible a year tom hanks has had .  hanks was the driving force behind one of the year's best films in saving private ryan , which is one of those thinking films that truly made someone wonder about the world .  he's also half of the glue behind the year's best example of pure entertainment .  tom hanks and meg ryan are magical , as is this movie .  it's a sweet , lovely affair with a technology twist .  it may be a long commercial , but it gave me a pretty big smile on my face . 
neg@ capsule : the running gag pair of characters from all of kevin smith's films gets their own movie .  the gags are sporadically funny .  it is more than occasionally funny for teens who are fond of scatological humor and anti-gay jokes .  the plot is weak and the leads are not a particularly funny comic team .  the little inside jokes and digs at other entertainment and particularly at kevin smith films are the best features of the film .  sadly for me they were just not funny enough to make the film worth watching .  this feels like the high school skit that that the principal would not let the kids do on talent night .   ( and it turns out he had very good reasons . )   , low 0 ( -4 to +4 )  a film needs a plot .  it needs characters for empathy value .  it needs a story and an emotional center .  if a film is just a chain of jokes it can only be so good and any entertainment value will succeed or fail based on how funny the jokes are .  kevin smith has now made two satisfying films , clerks and chasing amy .  with dogma he tried to make a philosophical religious comedy and mixed with a madcap romp .  peter cook and dudley moore did that very successfully with their bedazzled .  but getting the combination to work is very hard to do right and kevin smith's fecal monsters in dogma were not the way to do it .  his remaining two films , mallrats and his new jay and silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audience .  jay and silent bob strike back is a compendium of gay jokes , penis jokes , flatulence jokes , film pastiches , and in-jokes .  how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call .  for me , the vast majority of the jokes were just not very funny .  there was not enough cleverness or variety .  it is funny at most once or twice to accuse someone of being gay .  penis jokes work only so many times .  showing up as minor characters in every kevin smith film jay and silent bob were a clever pair of human running gags .  they were sort of the modern equivalents of naunton wayne and basil radford , the comic duo who showed up satirizing the english middle class in several good british post-war films including dead of night , the lady vanishes , and passport to pimlico .  jay and silent bob were originally supposedly typical generation x stoners .  as the series wore on they had larger and larger parts .  in jay and silent bob strike back they are the leads .  jay and silent bob ( played by jason mewes and kevin smith ) are chased away from the front of the convenience store where they were dealing drugs in clerks .  this leaves them at loose ends .  they are not sure what would be worthwhile to do with their lives when they hear that a comic book with characters visually modeled on them will be adapted into a movie .  they decide to devote their lives to wrecking the movie or getting some of that big movie industry cash .  so it is off to hollywood to shake down the movie company and having adventures along the way .  the film is mostly about their adventures on the road and when they get to hollywood  the problem with this comedy team is that neither really pulls his weight to make the film funny .  silent bob , being silent , can only contribute to the comedy by reacting with that very expressive face of his .  this makes his piece of the comedy even less than a straight man like a dean martin or bud abbott would have .  jay has to be the comic .  he could carry the load for both if he were extremely inventive .  the problem is that he is not sufficiently funny .  he is too bland to be the comic half and his lines just do not show any comic flair .  so jay and silent bob are a long way from being a successful comic team .  their starring roles and the low humor make this a comedy for those young at mind and for people who can laugh at gags they have seen before--sometimes just minutes before .  like dogma before it , but definitely not like chasing amy , this film feels more like an amateurish skit than a real movie .  certainly neither the plot nor the characters are at all involving .  they are excuses for gags , many of which still fall flat .  it is dogma without any of the humorous theological content .  the film does not offer much to an adult audience .  i rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a low 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
pos@ plot : derek zoolander is a male model .  he is also very dumb and impressionable .  for that reason , he is secretly hired and trained ( so secret , that even he doesn't know about it ) by an underground fashion syndicate to assassinate the prime minister of malaysia , who wants to abolish child labor in his country .  will zoolander fulfill the dirty deed ?  will zoolander ever grace the world his new " look " ?  is this a funny movie ?  find out below . . .  critique : there's a place in our world for " stupid comedies " .  films which don't pretend to take themselves seriously , are based on idiotic premises and filled with dumb jokes .  there's also a time for them and many would argue that this difficult period of our history , might be an ideal circumstance during which to " relax " by watching something so completely frivolous .  well , if you're in the mood for some seriously mindless entertainment , ben stiller and his cast of many have assembled one of the more original dumb comedies in some time .  of course , comedies as such are usually very subjective and i could see how some will see this film simply as stupid and unfunny , while others will grant them the " stupid " , but consider it funny instead .  i personally enjoyed it for the most part , cracked up loudly during a couple of specific sequences and loved the derek zoolander character and the unrestrained whipping they released upon the fashion industry .  snap !  it was also nice to see several real-life models with small roles in the movie , not taking themselves too seriously .  and if you're the type of person who likes celebrity cameos in films , well , don't look any further because dozens of famous faces show up here including vince vaughn , billy zane , winona ryder , christian slater , david duchovny , natalie portman and many , many others .  i especially liked andy dick's complete make-over as the masseuse .  hi-larious !  but with all films of this type , there is bound to be some stuff that simply doesn't work .  a few particulars which didn't strike my fancy included the bulimia and " orgy " sequence with christine taylor , the break-dance fighting , and i also never get why they use real countries in plots like this ( why not just " make up " a country , instead of zeroing in on a certain people ? ) .  i also could have done with less of the taylor character in general , since she wasn't all that interesting and seemed to slow things down every now and then ( more zoolander , dude ! ) .  but those few missteps were nothing compared to some of the more memorable scenes which definitely did work for me !  i almost pissed myself during the " gas station " disaster , absolutely adored the " walk-off " contest ( with david bowie as the judge , no less ) and appreciated many of zoolander's moronic one-liners ( " i was a merman . . . a  merman ! ! " ) .  and i dare you to get his " monkey " photo shoot out of your head after seeing this movie ( " you're a monkey , derek . . . a  monkey ! " )  i also really liked the soundtrack and the pace of the film , both of which zipped and zagged , and established a nice rhythm to it all .  again , it's to note that this movie is dumb and not for everyone , but my guess is that if you laughed at the trailer , you will likely enjoy many of the quips in the actual picture as well .  if you thought the trailer was dumb , skip this dodo bird and go rent austin powers again or something , a film from which there is an obvious influence here .  blue steel , baby . . . yeah ! ! !  where's joblo coming from ?  austin powers ( 7/10 ) - austin powers 2 ( 7/10 ) - deuce bigalow ( 7/10 ) - dude , where's my car ( 7/10 ) - freddy got fingered ( 5/10 ) - jay & silent bob strike back ( 8/10 ) - joe dirt ( 5/10 ) - meet the parents ( 8/10 ) - say it isn't so ( 3/10 ) 
neg@ it's probably inevitable that the popular virtual reality genre ( " the matrix , " " existenz " ) would collide with the even more popular serial-killer genre ( " kiss the girls , " " se7en " ) .  the result should have been more interesting than " the cell . "  as the movie opens , therapist catharine deane ( jennifer lopez ) treats a catatonic boy ( colton james ) by entering his mind through some sort of virtual reality technique that's never fully explained .  after months of therapy sessions in a surreal desert , catharine has no success to report .  meanwhile , killer carl stargher ( vincent d'onofrio ) has claimed another victim .  his particular hobby is to kidnap young women , keep them in a glass cell overnight , and drown them .  he takes the corpse and soaks it in bleach , then suspends himself over the body and jerks off while watching a video tape of the drowning .  although carl's been doing this for awhile , he's recently become sloppy , and fbi agent peter novak ( vince vaughn ) is closing in fast .  not fast enough , though , to keep carl from sticking another woman ( tara subkoff ) in the cell or to catch him before he suffers a schizophrenic attack that leaves him in a coma .  from the videos in carl's house , peter can see that the drowning cell is automated and will fill with water forty hours after the abduction .  to save the kidnapped girl , peter has to find the cell before the end of the day , and comatose carl's not talking .  so off they go to catharine in the hope that she can go inside carl's mind and find out where the cell is in time .  the focus of " the cell " in on the ornate interior of carl's mind , but the universe director tarsem singh creates seems more an exercise in computer-generated spectacle than an exploration of the psychotic personality .  for the most part , it's style without substance .  in his own mind , carl is a decadent emperor in flowing robes , ming the merciless , as well as a frightened boy ( jake thomas ) abused by his father .  all in all , the mind of a psycho killer turns out to be a strangely dull place , and i kept wishing i could fast-forward to the next development .  singh is best known for directing music videos , particularly rem's " losing my religion , " and " the cell " seems very much like a really long , really slow mtv video with the sound deleted .  singer lopez seems to think she's in a video as well ; she devotes more time to posing in elaborate costumes than she does to acting .  the premise had great promise .  the computer-generated world within carl's mind could have been a bizarre , surreal universe governed by insanity and symbolism rather than logic .  the first room catharine enters in carl's head shows this promise .  she finds a horse standing in center of the room ; suddenly , sheets of sharp-edged glass fall into the horse , dividing it into segments .  the panes of glass separate , pulling apart the pieces of the still-living horse .  this scene is twisted , disturbing , and thought-provoking , because the psychological importance of the horse and its fate is left to the viewer to ponder .  another element that should have been developed is the effect on catharine of merging with the mind of a psychopath .  their minds begin to bleed together at one point in the movie , and this should have provided an opportunity to discover the dark corners of catharine's own psyche .  like sidney lumet's " the offence " or michael mann's " manhunter , " " the cell " could have explored how the madness of the killer brings out a repressed darkness in the investigator .  however , catharine's character is hardly developed at all , and lopez has no depth to offer the role .  bottom line : don't get trapped in this one . 
pos@  * * * * * * minor plot spoilers in review * * * * * * * * * * * * no major spoilers are in review * * * * * *  the previous two " alien " films have each had their own unique styles to them .  the ridley scott's alien was very much a stylistic suspense film .  james cameron's aliens was much more of an action film .  and i liked each film separately for which it was .  now alien 3 is out .  and it is it's own film in the same right that alien and aliens were .  unlike aliens , alien 3 requires that you have seen aliens .  this is very important as the story picks up exactly were aliens left off .  the survivors of the expedition to lv-426 are returning home after battling and beating the aliens .  the climactic fight scene between ripley and the mother alien on the sulaco in aliens left behind one item , an egg .  in the opening sequence we see the egg hatch , find its quarry , which leads to a fire aboard the sulaco when the facehugger is injured , an leads the sulaco to jettison the hypersleep tubes in an escape vessel .  this vessel crash lands on fury 109 .  everyone in the vessel is killed , except ripley .  the facehugger is jettisoned with them and survives the crash .  fury 109 is an ex-mining/maximum security prison .  when closed down , some of the lifer prisoners decided to stay and live out the remaining years on the planet .  all the prisoners are men who have not seen a woman in many years .  ripley's arrival sparks a problem with the inmates .  as for the new haircut that ripley and the prisoner's sport , there is an infestation of lice on the planet .  being an ex-prison means that there is no way off the planet and no weapons .  so the prisoners and ripley are off to face the alien on their own .  i will not go into detail , but you can guess what happens here .  the alien is loose and no one believes ripley's outstanding story .  she finds comfort in the arms of the colony's doctor .  yes , after 57 years ripley has sex .  it is not gratuitous , in fact , we don't even see them kiss , but it is just as well .  a sweaty sex scene would not have worked in the context of the film .  there is a lot more gore in alien 3 .  in fact i would guess to say that there is more in alien 3 than either of the earlier two .  it also sports a new alien with 4 legs !  i won't say how , but it leads us to believe a few new things about the alien and its cycle , which i am sure will be explored in alien 4 .  sigourney weaver is back as ripley and provides another excellent performance of this character .  her scene during the autopsy of newt is enough to garnish her another academy nomination .  the rest of the cast is also quite good .  notably , charles dance as the doctor with whom ripley finds momentary escape from fury 109 .  alien 3 has a very distinct look .  this is due largely to its director , david fincher .  mr . fincher , who until now has only directed music videos and commercials , has done an incredible job here .  his direction is excellent and makes this film come to life in ways no " alien " film has before .  for mr . fincher , i see a long prosperous career ahead of him .  the music was also done by a newcomer to the film industry .  elliot goldenthal has created a deeply moving score which lends itself to the claustrophobic setting that the " alien " series been set in .  this time the score is not so much a rip off of star trek ii ( james horner's aliens ) .  this score has a choral back up at times and even lends itself to the old style of ennio morricone scoring .  this is a great score .  the ending to alien 3 is quite good .  there were times i thought that hollywood would come in and screw it up , but it played very nicely .  i will not ruin the ending for you .  go see the film .  i consider it to be a much more involved film than any of the other films released so far this season .  alien 3 is a worthy successor to aliens and alien .  and when they make alien 4 , perhaps they will be able to find yet another new direction to take it in . 
neg@ movies based on video games , such as street fighter or mario bros . , have never generated much interest at the box office .  but when the first mortal kombat movie came out in 1995 , it did surprisingly well .  with a simple story , a pulsating soundtrack , and lots of awesomely choreographed fight scenes , the movie moved quickly and displayed lots of energy .  it got my vote for 'the movie where i expected the least and got the most' .  and , if you haven't had the opportunity , i would definitely recommend that you see it on video .  in the world of mortal kombat , based on the popular arcade game , dark forces from outworld try to infiltrate earth's realm with the ulimate goal of total conquest and the destruction of humanity .  the mortal kombat refers to a competition , fought by human mortals against outworld's minions , which if won , will guarantee earth's safety for another generation .  mk2 picks up almost immediately after the humans return victoriously from competition .  despite their victory , however , a gateway has somehow opened , and outworld continues in its quest to conquer earth .  outworld's warriors include an impressive collection of fighters , including shao kahn , mintoro ( a centaur ) , sheeva ( a four-armed ogre ) , and sindel .  earth's mortal warriors , under the leadership of the benevolent god , lord rayden , includes liu kang , princess kitana , sonya blade and jax , who must fight against outworld's forces .  it's an easy enough premise , but unfortunately ( very unfortunately ) , the writers try to do too much with the movie .  it is only a video game , after all , but the on-screen version tries to go beyond it's comic book boundaries by adding depth , a conceptualization of self-worth , and worst of all , a love story .  this becomes very awkward , because all of the players are fighters and nothing more .  they are likable and impressive when they are showcasing their martial arts and fighting skills , but look extremely awkward and uncomfortable when they are required to actually act .  this becomes embarrassingly apparent , for example , as the movie tries to develop a romantic bond between liu kang and princess kitana .  the original mk was smart in letting the players do what they do best .  they spoke little , but fought a lot .  thus , the movie was easy to digest .  however , mk2 tries to give these players a certain amount of depth , an element that was lacking in the first movie , but the attempt here fails miserably .  this uneasy feeling is readily apparent , for example , whenever you hear lord rayden speak .  not only does he talk in riddles and offer enigmatic ( e . g .  useless ) advice , but he speaks so slowly as if to simulate infinite wisdom .  try reading this half as fast , and you'll hear what i mean .  but the movie is not a complete fatality .  fight scenes are well-choreographed , highlighted by terrific acrobatics and agility .  and players of the game will be rewarded with the inclusion of practically every character from the video game , although their screen time amounts to nothing more than a cameo .  even if you're not familiar with the video game , each fighter has their own costume and unique weaponry to easily differentiate themselves .  but it's just too little of what movie-goers and especially fans of the game will expect .  oddly , the inclusion of the human element actually pollutes the purity of the mortal kombat essence .  and the poor acting results in a muddled movie that offers the viewing audience little chance for survival .   ( i am now talking very slowly as if to simulate infinite wisdom ) .  rent the first one , but the sequel is for kombat fans only . 
pos@ on re-watching italian writer/director dario argento's much lauded murder mystery tenebrae , i was struck more than anything else by how many sins he commits as a storyteller and manages to get away with .  in emphasising style over matters of plot argento is somewhat notorious in cult film circles , but some aficionados still praise tenebrae as the greatest of his " giallo " murder mysteries .  while it's certainly not perfect , repeated viewings reveal it to be nonetheless a densely plotted and terrifically stylish thriller .  the story follows a promotional visit to rome by famous american mystery novelist peter neal ( anthony franciosa ) where he discovers that a serial killer is on the loose inspired by his latest book " tenebrae " .  with the police on his back for leads , he decides to take a personal interest in the case and he soon becomes drawn into a mystery where all is not as it seems .  the film benefits enormously from a fine central performance by franciosa .  he brings grace , charm and a deceptive benigness to his character which provides an interesting foil to both the violence of the books he writes and the unfolding real-life horror around him .  the film is awash with a fascinating psychosexual tension .  argento peels back the facade of showbiz and jetset lifestyles to reveal an amoral , ambivalent , shadowy world where desire in all its forms has become a dangerous business .  tenebrae is perhaps the most multi-layered of argento's scripts to date and there is much bubbling underneath the surface here .  it may take at least two or three viewings to appreciate all the psychological themes at play .  in that respect it strongly recalls his previous giallo deep red/profondo rosso ( the full-length italian language version ) and fans will enjoy spotting the recurring themes .  needless to say for argento fans , there is no denying the director's brilliance as a stylist .  many of the action and murder sequences are directed with his characteristic finesse and feature plenty of intriguing camerawork .  they are all the more impressive for the fact that in this film argento creates mood by filling his scenes with light , rather than the dark shadows and deep rich colours of earlier works like deep red and suspiria .  instead , tenebrae's set design and lighting paints a sleek , clinical , chilly vision of a vaguely futuristic urban world .  and the soundtrack's mix of electronic atmospheres and gothic rock by frequent argento collaborators goblin is the perfect accompaniment .  so tenebrae has much to recommend it , no question .  still , constantly nagging at the back of this viewers mind is several lumps in the narrative .  some critics argue that logic doesn't matter in argento films , but damnit , it matters in all films to the point where viewers don't deserve to feel cheated .  by the way , if you don't want to know the solution to the mystery then skip the next three paragraphs .  about an hour into tenebrae the story takes an unexpected twist which , properly handled , could have proved ingenious .  we witness the murder of the serial killer himself by a man who , we later discover , is none other than the author peter neal .  he is insane , apparently .  the murders then continue for the remainder of the film as neal decides it's time to settle some personal business involving his neurotic wife .  he is finally revealed to us as this " second killer " in the film's bloody climax .  but argento muffs the twist , both technically and narratively .  you see , we are supposed to be tricked into thinking that during this scene peter neal is actually an innocent witness who was crouching in the bushes nearby the whole time and spying on the killer's house .  but thanks to poor editing , its had to believe neal could have murdered the killer anyway .  bad cutting puts the timing way out .  in other words , he's almost in two places at once .  during this crucial scene we are also thrown a ridiculous red herring .  by the film's end you realise that for the sake of an alibi neal must have self-inflicted a nasty injury in this earlier scene to make it look like he was attacked by a fleeing assailant .  the injury ?  he banged himself on the head with a bloody great rock !  thus , the revelation of the " hero " as a killer ( and anti-hero ) in the final scenes may still prove shocking , but its all somewhat implausible by the time the end credits have rolled .  helpfully , in the end we do learn that the bizarre flashbacks of personal humiliation and murder that have permeated the film belonged to neal all along .  but there too is a problem , as the explanations offered for his motivations are psychologically fuzzy to say the least .  the story owes us a better understanding of franciosa's mind , his concealed madness and his sudden murderous rampage .  tenebrae is also marred by annoying little inconsistencies .  for instance , a teenage boy and girl leave a hotel room and minutes later we see the girl riding off on the back of a motorbike .  we would assume the rider is the same boy , but it turns out to be some male character we aren't even introduced too !  that's careless filmmaking , pure and simple .  why , you may ask , do i go on about the story's flaws ?  because when it comes to visuals and set pieces , argento is one of the most exciting filmmakers in the world .  take one of the extended scenes in tenebrae .  an upset girl wandering the streets at night needlessly taunts a guard dog to the point where - almost unbelievably - it jumps a high fence and chases her across town .  finally , as she desperately seeks escape from this crazed canine , she accidentally stumbles on the serial killer's lair .  it's an absolutely masterful sequence , tense and exciting , and communicating a wealth of information through visuals alone .  and that's exactly the kind of thing that makes the flaws so frustrating .  too often , it seems , argento's films as a whole are less than the sum of their impressive parts .  mind you , if you love murder mysteries then tenebrae is still worth a look .  and if you're a fan of argento's unique style of giallo thriller then it's essential .  see the uncut widescreen version if you can and drink in some of the wonderful cinematography by luciano tovoli .  it's a stylish , great-looking and quirky film despite the problem narrative .  a shame , because it doesn't have to be that way .  take argento's more recent stendhal syndrome ( 1992 ) , where with the aid of co-writer franco ferrini he fashioned a solid storyline without sacrificing any of his surreal weirdness or visual panache .  proof that he can do it , if he tries . . . 
neg@ this is the first film in what would become the most successful series of horror films of all time .  a fair warning to those of you who might be inclined to watch this movie for the first appearance of everyone's favorite goalie-mask-wearing homicidal maniac .  jason , the guy who single handedly controlled the overpopulation problem around the crystal lake area , doesn't start his quest to find the most interesting household item with which to kill someone until the sequel .  while he does have a small role in this film , we the audience have to depend on another blood thirsty maniac to rack up the body count .  the plot , like every other friday the 13th movie goes something like this -- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he/she/it possibly can in the space of a 90 minute movie .  the reasons that the afore mentioned unsuspecting teenagers come into contact with the bloodthirsty killer are usually of little importance to the story .  but for those of you out there that might actually care about such trivial matters in a movie such as a plot , here are the basics .  a bunch of unsuspecting teens get a summer job at a long closed summer camp .  they are days away from the arrival of the kids and they are spending their time fixing the place up and making sure it is ready for the kids .  sadly , they start being butchered one by one by the bloodthirsty killer .  at this point i would usually say something about the quality of acting , directing or maybe something about the high quality of the production .  since i'm not going to do that , feel free to assume that if i did , it wouldn't be positive .  i will say that this movie looks as if it was made for about a hundred bucks , and that includes the actors' salaries .  if you are used to recent horror films like scream , you are in for a bit of a surprise .  the only saving grace for friday the 13th is that it was really the first of its kind , with the killer taking real pride in their work .  using as many methods of murder as they could .  none of this single murder weapon stuff life that unimaginative leatherface in chainsaw massacre , or the creatively stifled imagination of halloween's michael myers who just used brute force or a really big kitchen knife .  nope , in the friday the 13th movies , you can always count on the killer taking great pride in his work .  one fun fact about this movie is that the cast includes a very young kevin bacon , although after this movie it is a wonder he ever worked again .  the main reason to see friday the 13th is if you want to watch all of the series from the beginning .  if not , stick with the later films with jason , everyone's favorite hockey fan .  friday the 13th is the sort of movie that is fun to sit down and get a couple of scares from , just don't sit down expecting a whole lot . 
pos@ a cinematic version of one of john irving's novels is always cause for celebration even if , as in the case of " simon birch , " the treatment is merely " suggested by , " rather than strictly based on , the book .  suggested means that irving , author of the acclaimed " the world according to garp , " sold the rights to his novel " a prayer for owen meany " to the disney machine for $1 million , but wouldn't grant them permission to use either the title or any of the character names .  that's an odd decision--irving claims it's to protect both himself and the novel--but it's one that doesn't unduly harm the finished product .  irving's books are rich and complex works , full of intriguing , colorful characters .   " a prayer for owen meany " is no exception ; it tells the story of an unusual boy--called simon birch in the film version--who is uncommonly small in stature and possesses a high-pitched falsetto voice , " like strangled mice . "  simon believes himself to be " god's instrument , " placed on this earth to somehow effect god's plan .  simon is played by ian michael smith , who suffers from a rare enzyme disorder known as morquio syndrome which , among other things , prevents bones , ligaments , and joints from developing normally .  smith's debilitating disease makes him an obvious physical choice for " simon birch " ; however , the producers unwisely favored form over function--smith's acting abilities are limited at best .  another drawback is that in the book , simon's condition is described the way irving describes any of his characters--in careful , loving detail .  watching " simon birch , " however , creates a different feeling altogether ; the audience is forced into a voyeuristic relationship with the character , surely something irving would not have intended .  simon himself tends to be too cute and irritating , a combination of smith's rookie status as an actor and the precocious one-liners he's forced to deliver , courtesy mark steven johnson , the film's director and screenwriter .  fortunately , simon birch isn't the real star of the film that bears his name .  simon is more of a catalyst , allowing his co-stars to shape the story , and the actors who fill those roles to turn in outstanding supporting performances , saving the film from an obsequious , manipulative destiny .  first and foremost is joseph mazzello ( " jurassic park " ) , who is nothing less than remarkable as simon's best friend , joe .  mazzello turns in a wonderfully layered performance for a 14 year old , ripe with laughter , pain , and tears ; he is certainly an emerging talent .  ashley judd positively beams in her role as rebecca , joe's single mother , and oliver platt is warm and tender as her boyfriend , ben .  david strathairn and jan hooks play the town's reverend and sunday school teacher respectively and their contributions uphold the high standards set by the others .  there's even a surprising yet effective uncredited cameo performance from . . .  well , that would be telling .  perhaps " suggested by " the novel is the appropriate way to go after all , since " simon birch " only focuses on one chapter , one year , of simon's extraordinary life .  the film also changes the book's ending to one that is more melodramatic , yet necessary given simon's lot .  the flavor of irving's original novel remains , however--the passions , friendships , and insecurities that come with a change of seasons to the little community of gravestown , maine , and the engaging oddballs , both big and small , who reside there . 
neg@ deuce bigalow ( rob schneider ) cleans fish tanks .  yeah , i didn't know that was a real job either .  one of his customers is antoine leconte ( oded fehr ) , a successful gigolo .  when antoine has to go to sweden for three weeks , he lets deuce use his house to look after an ailing $800 fish .  fooling around , deuce sets fire to the kitchen and smashes a $6000 fish tank .  after taking a try at one of antoine's clients and earning $10 , deuce decides to prostitute himself to raise the money to replace the fish tank before the fiery-tempered antoine returns .  enter t . j . ( eddie griffin ) , a pimp for " man-whores , " who arranges for deuce to service an assortment of women whose imperfections keep them from dating .  there's an enormous woman ( played by transvestite porn star chi chi la rue ) who hides food in her clothes .  there's claire ( gail o'grady ) whose narcolepsy causes her to fall asleep every few minutes .  tina ( torsten voges ) is so tall her face doesn't fit on the screen , and ruth ( amy poehler ) has tourette's syndrome and shouts obscenities without warning .  finally there's kate ( arija bareikis ) whose sorority sisters secretly paid her fare .  she seems perfect , and deuce quickly falls in love with her .   ( she does , we discover later , have an imperfection , but deuce decides it isn't important . )  deuce's life is complicated by a bothersome cop ( william forsythe ) looking for information on antoine and by kate's discovery of his man-whoring .  however , neither threat generates much suspense .  the formula is so familiar that we know how it will end from the start .   " deuce bigalow " is the first project from adam sandler's company happy madison , the formation of which assures that we'll be seeing the sandler style of comedy mass-produced at an increasing rate in years to come .  be afraid .  be very afraid .  the good news is that sandler doesn't actually appear in " deuce " and that rob schneider and eddie griffin are funnier than sandler .  schneider has a sweetness that makes the clueless but good-hearted deuce believable .  griffin's delivery is dead-on , especially in the coining of " technical terms " for t . j . 's profession , as in " don't make me he-bitch man-slap you ! "  there's the expected amount of toilet humor in " deuce . "   ( for one thing , deuce's dad is a men's room attendant ) .  does anyone over the age of eight actually find bowel movements that funny ?  for most of us , i think that childhood fascination with bodily functions disappears when we hit the far-side of puberty and discover how funny sex is .  i , for one , will be glad when the toilet trend is finally flushed .  bottom line : " deuce " doesn't offer anything new but it is intermittently funny . 
pos@ seen may 31 , 1999 on home video ( rented ) .  one of the best things about the movies is that they can make you really start to wonder and analyze things in your own , everyday life that you might not have thought much of otherwise .  with some films it might be just a secondary issue , but with `dark city' what we get is nearly an entire film committed to philosophizing and theorizing about human memory and how it defines who we are , which is a poignant theme made through an absolutely beautifully-constructed film with the kind of story and setting that could only happen in a movie .  there's an old role-playing computer game called `d ? ja v ? ' wherein the player takes on the role of a man who can't remember who he is , where he is and how he got there .  the goal is to gather as many clues as possible to figure that out and along the way overcome a conflict .  the premise to this film is not unlike that game , only this time we don't have control over the protagonist .  we begin by meeting a seemingly ordinary man living in an extremely dark and dirty city ( actually , it's more than just the city , it's the whole reality ) that isn't just that neo-gothic look ( a la `batman , ' `blade runner , ' ) , but is so fully developed it's almost a different genre completely .  later he will learn that his name is john murdoch ( sewell ) , but for now he has no idea what's going on other than the fact something is not right .  the fact there's a dead body in the corner goes to enhance the feeling of paranoia and a mysterious , hurried call telling him to leave immediately is also very chilling .  this opening scene alone goes a long way to define the setting of the film and its bizarre , horrific tone .  the man doesn't know who he is nor where he's going and it's interesting to follow him since we the viewers have no idea either we can sympathize and identify with him .  in fact , this is the way all stories begin since it's impossible to know the history of a character , their feelings , values , morals , etc . until after we've observed them for a while .  but in this case , the total feeling of amnesia is an excellent tool towards characterization , developing the mood and outlining the story .  eventually , some semblance of a plot begins to unfold as it appears that john is a serial killer wanted by the police .  we met inspector frank bumstead ( hurt ) , a quiet , unemotional , soft-spoken deadpan man who appears to have been on the trail of the killer for some time .  two other important characters are also introduced : dr . daniel p . schreber ( sutherland ) , a neurotic psychiatrist who claims to be john's doctor ; and emma murdoch ( connelly ) , a jazz singer dolled up to look like a caraciture right out of the old dick tracy serials or any given leading lady of the old film-noir movies .  it was schreber who contacted john for reasons that are continually revealed throughout the course of the film .  he also contacts emma , which further helps the film reveal what is seemingly a complex , mysterious back story .  but absolutely nothing is as it appears to be in `dark city , ' which is what makes it so fascinating throughout its continual scenes of confusion and vertigo .  everything the filmmakers want us to see has some significance - considering how intricate the detail is to every single shot , its lighting , art direction and overall production design , they don't seem to be able to afford any gratuities .  however , that might also be what's keeping it from reaching its maximum potential .  by continuing to follow john as he wanders around this strange place , so much unlike the real world we know , we come to realize that it's all a hoax .  everyone in the city is the subject of an experiment being conducted by a race of aliens to understand what makes humans tick in their efforts to somehow save themselves from extinction .  but , as the film's tagline says , `last night , one of us went off . '  for reasons that are never clearly explained , it appears that john possesses telekinetic powers to can do pretty much whatever his mind can conceive ( a process known as `tuning' ) .  the aliens , which look like very old bald human men with pasty skin , also possess the power en masse and use it to change the city every night at midnight .  at the same time all the humans fall asleep and after the changes are made , they awake and either continue where they left off or begin a new life they have no idea they did not have until then .  this premise certainly is interesting and director and co-screenwriter alex proyas is able to keep the film consistently mysterious in this regard .  he does provide some explanations such as that dr . schreber is an assistant to `the strangers' because he somehow could synthesize memory into chemical form .  the aliens mix and match the memories of the city's population to see who will change and who will not .  in the process this creates for a good deal of deep , thought-provoking philosophies that could be applied to the real world .  however , where the film errs is by not playing up the idea of memory versus the human heart as to what makes a person who he or she is .  the main characters are all closely intertwined within the seemingly complex murder mystery which never actually happened , yet when they start to go through some of the expected emotions it comes off as distant , static and cold ( mediocre performances by hurt and connelly don't help either ) .  for example , john realizes emma is not and probably never was his wife so he does not feel an emotional bond to her , yet in some scenes crucial to the film's plot , we are expected to believe they do have a genuine love for each other , which is also part of the film's climax and ending .  and that's what proyas seems to be inferring with the film , but never quite manages to convey in its fullest sense .  ironically , this is what made his first film `the crow' work so well , which had a similar theme of struggling to find hope and the human spirit within a nearly identical , dark twisted world .  with `dark city' the messenger seems to be mistaken for the message .  still , the film is by no means bad and is consistently entertaining and enjoyable .  there's a lot to like here , most notably the sheer visual look and style of it all which accounts for at least half the reasons the film is able to tell the story it does .  the story as a whole is one of the most original to come out of hollywood in years .  `dark city' is what the movies are all about - the escape from the real world . 
neg@ we could paraphrase michelle pfieffer's character in dangerous minds and say that beyond rangoon starts with an " a . "  that's fair enough .  all movies , like all school children , should be given the benefit of the doubt .  the chance to succeed .  after all , we like to think that the right combination of talent and effort can do wonders .  mountains can be moved , and good movies can be made .  yeah right .  children fail , as do films .  as does director john boorman's latest .  the success of beyond rangoon hinges on the believability of patricia arquette ( ed wood , true romance ) as the busty westerner-in-peril wandering about 1988 burma without a passport .  though we can stomach the mild plot contrivances that get her there , it's a tougher task to overlook the actress .  she's a lightweight .  as the first scene ( with narration ! )  demonstrates , she doesn't have * nearly * enough range for the emotions that her character--a mother fleeing the memories of a murdered husband and son--is supposed to show .  she may give a stronger performance than , say , keanu reeves in a walk in the clouds , by not by much .  beyond rangoon is a very physically appealing film , thanks to the practiced craftsmanship of john boorman ( deliverance , excalibur , hope and glory ) .  he keeps the narrative moving , no matter how muddy the story--or the heroine--gets .  why he chose arquette remains a mystery , though .  maybe he was thinking that the dramatic weight of the story would overcome any casting deficiencies .  but even after an hour of half-stated political statements and murky mass killings , we * still * don't know enough of what's happening in this country to feel distressed for the characters or their situations .  empty exoticism .  the technical credits in beyond rangoon are a curious mix , combining lush jungle photography with bad blue-screen work .  also odd is the obvious dubbing .  done to make some of the foreign characters sound less foreign ?  and , is it my mistake , or do the same extras keep reappearing as different soldiers ? ?  doo doo doo doo .  [ " twilight zone " theme , or opinion of movie .  you be the judge . ] 
pos@ when you go to the movies as much as i do , you unfortunately end up seeing certain movie trailers one too many times .  such was the case with frequency .  every time i went to a screening , there was the frequency preview .  it looked awful .  it looked cheesy , sappy and ridiculous .  it looked like a flop .  well , whoever put that trailer together should be fired , because in terms of pure entertainment , frequency is one of the best of the year thus far .  frequency boasts a compelling story line .  an occurrence of freakish solar activity allows police detective john sullivan ( james caviezel ) to speak to his fireman father frank sullivan ( dennis quaid ) through a ham radio , despite the fact that frank has been dead for 30 years .  john is able to give his father information that prevents his death in a warehouse fire , but by doing so causes other changes .  somehow , a serial killer's reign of terror , which in the original timeline had been stopped at three murders , extends to ten victims . . .  including john's mother .  this is director gregory hoblit's third film ( the other two being primal fear and fallen ) .  with all three , he's managed to attach himself to great scripts ( this one by toby emmerich , whose only previous movie experience was as a music supervisor on numerous new line films ) and add equally great direction .  also , he apparently likes to have his films wrap up with a kick-ass ending .  frequency is no exception , the ending is unpredictable and incredibly satisfying .  hoblit is three for three , and i hope he can keep it up .  now everyone can argue logic this and logic that all you want with the sci-fi elements of frequency .  but the fact of the matter is that time travel has never been achieved .  who's to say how something works and how it doesn't when it's never happened ?  is it because we've become accustomed to time travel " laws " from other places like " star trek " and the back to the future trilogy and " quantum leap " ?  yes , if you sit down and think about it , certain plot elements in this film probably won't make any sense .  most films are like that .  don't let that dissuade you from seeing this fantastically entertaining film however .  when frequency was over , it made me wish i had seen it with my father so i could have given him a hug ( okay okay , shut up ) .  when you break it down past all its sci-fi elements and serial killer antics , frequency is simply a movie about a father and his son and the bond that they share .  it's touching , it's sincere , and it's what ultimately makes this movie work .  [pg-13] 
neg@ michael crichton has had a long career of writing novels , many of which are science fiction .  the most profitable film adaptation of any novel was an adaptation of a michael crichton science fiction novel .  so in the logic of the film industry a good way to make a profitable film would be to make a big-budget adaptation of another crichton science fiction novel .  congo failed , and i am afraid that sphere is probably not going to fare a whole lot better .  it a little better than just okay novel and it makes a film that is not even that good .  the film is expensive , over one hundred million dollars ; is long , 133 minutes ; has a terrific cast , including dustin hoffman , samuel l . jackson , and sharon stone ; but has little that is really original and less that is exciting .  several years ago dr . norman goodman ( played by dustin hoffman ) was asked to write up a set of procedures for the government to follow if an alien entity was actually encountered .  the plan he wrote was only semi-serious , but did explicitly define a team of experts who should investigate the alien .  now that team has been assembled by a mysterious team leader named barnes ( peter coyote ) to study a spacecraft almost a half mile in length that apparently dropped into the pacific ocean in the early 1700s .  suddenly norman's less than serious procedure has become an action plan for dealing with a real alien spacecraft .  included in the team to investigate are mathematician harry adams ( samuel l . jackson ) , biologist beth halperin ( sharon stone ) , and astrophysicist ted fielding ( liev schreiber ) .  together they travel to the deep pacific spaceship to understand its secrets .  one major secret is the meaning of the huge sphere of gold-toned liquid metal at the heart of this spaceship .  what is disappointing about this film is that it does not have really effective performances .  director barry levinson is at his best with good actors rather than good special effects .  the problem here is he is making a big-budget science fiction film .  it has some effects , but the most intriguing effect he shows only as an outline on a radar screen .  the technique is to suggest rather than to show and let the actors and the viewer's imagination carry the film as robert wise did with the haunting .  that could be a reasonable approach in a low-budget film .  but that requires creating much more atmosphere than levinson can manage to muster .  it requires the actors to give really compelling performances and simply put , they don't .  hoffman's acting seems muted .  jackson seems to laid back .  we do not feel for these characters and do not get inside their heads .  levinson paid big bucks for his actors and does not really get price performance .  and why we have queen latifah as a minor functionary on the expedition is anybody's guess . a  cast of unknowns could have delivered as much emotional impact at a fraction of the price .  look how much more powerful a film like alien was with only moderate actors .  most science fiction spectaculars these days have second-tier actors and first-tier special effects .  levinson tries second-tier effects , and first-tier actors , but never makes that exchange pay off for the viewer .  perhaps sci-fi spectaculars are just not an actor's medium .  the result gets a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
pos@ it's been a long time since walt disney has delivered us a classic along the lines of the little mermaid or beauty and the beast .  sure , there have been delightful outings like last years hercules .  but nothing entirely groundbreaking .  with the release of the studio's newest feature length film , a remake of edgar rice burrough's creation tarzan , disney has plunged into new waters with both maturity and animation techniques .  it's no classic , but this new tarzan represents exactly what a family film should be .  the plot is loyal to the original storyline , as tarzan's parents are forced to abandon their ship which has caught fire , and find shelter in the jungles of africa .  but , they are killed ( offscreen ) by the snarling cheetah sabor , leaving baby tarzan alone and unharmed in his crib .  found by kala ( voiced with effective gentleness by glenn close ) , a kindhearted mother and member of a gorilla pack , tarzan is taken into the primate group and raised as one of their own .  we follow the young boy through the years , as he partakes in various adventures with his loud mouth gorilla friend terk ( a very brash but funny rosie o'donnell ) and clumsy elephant tantor ( wayne knight ) .  of course , in any disney film we are given some kind of goofy sidekick or humorous chum for the hero .  in tarzan , these characters fill that space rather inconspicuously .  gags that were magnified in other family films are kept quite minor here .  most of the characters are amusing without being forced .  as tarzan grows to manhood , the suspected antagonist stumbles into the picture .  here , the notorious bad guy is the big game hunter clayton ( brian blessed ) , who's accompanying a hapless professor ( nigel hawthorne ) on an expedition through the jungle .  of course , there's the professor's daughter , jane ( nicely vocalized by a cheerful minnie driver ) who will help supply the romantic quotient of the movie .  the thing that blew my socks off about this version of tarzan is the stunning animation .  directors chris buck and kevin lima have applied a breathtaking 3-d element to the movement of the athletic title character , and the fast-paced editing is absolutely a marvel .  as tarzan carries jane through the treetops , narrowly escaping a pack of nasty baboons , he slips and slides like a daredevil snow boarder or star surfer riding the big wave .  your eyes can barely keep up ; it's a fantastic accomplishment .  the subject matter here is also a notch or two above animation average .  there are important questions raised about tarzan's place in the world , and all are handled exceptionally well by the screenwriters .  there is no shred of doubt left to ponder afterward , which is a surprising plus that i wasn't expecting to find here .  suffice to say , this film will have both adults and children thoroughly entertained .  the grown-up tarzan is voiced by tony goldwyn , who made a name for himself as the `big mean jerk' from ghost .  goldwyn is effective playing someone who's not aware of his world's dangers .  glenn close is also memorable as his gorilla mother , and lance henriksen ( from tv's millennium ) is terrific as the silverback father unsure of how to accept the presence of a human child .  as the movie's villain , there is nothing particularly special or catching about the character of clayton .  it helps that brian blessed supplies his voice with game enthusiasm , but he is nothing compared to james woods' hilarious hades from hercules .  a burley guy with a big gun who just wants to capture the gorillas does not quite constitute for an all-together noticeable screen presence .  still , this is one great thrill-ride that disney has constructed .  i never expected rice burrough's work to be transformed so successfully from live action to animation , nor with so much emotional depth .  parents , along with all the kiddies , are going to find much to like in tarzan . 
neg@  " what's your favorite new york moment ? "   " this one's climbing the charts . "  starring john cusack , kate beckinsale , eugene levy , molly shannon .  directed by peter chelsom .  rated pg-13 .  there's no doubt that 95% of romantic comedies follow a distinct pattern : guy sees girl , guy wants girl , guy goes through unreasonable obstacles to get girl , guy gets girl .  in rare cases , the genders are flipped .  predictability is a given .  rarely , though , is a romantic comedy as cheap , as obvious , or as pointless as serendipity , a film that uses its " theme " as an excuse for its plot contrivances .   " lightweight " doesn't begin to describe it .  this is like anti-gravity .  it begins in a new york city bloomingdale's , a product placement that rivals cast away's fedex for sheer blatancy .  jonathan trager ( john cusack ) and sara thomas ( kate beckinsale ) both go for the same pair of gloves .  after going through the perfunctory motions , jonathan gets to keep the gloves and the two of them go out for ice cream , followed by ice skating .  jonathan falls hard , and sara is charmed .  when she writes her name and number down on a piece of paper , a truck rumbles by and blows it out of her hand .  she takes this as a sign from fate that they shouldn't be together ; jonathan is flabbergasted .  to pacify him , she comes up with an idea : jonathan will write his number on a 5 dollar bill , which she will promptly spend .  when she gets home , she will write her name and number inside a book ( " love in the time of cholera " ) and sell it to a used bookstore .  if the bill gets back to her or the book to him , it will mean that they are meant to be together .  three years later .  both sara and jonathan are now engaged to other love interests .  both realize they aren't content .  both go looking for the other .  what happens now is so absurd that i'm almost tempted to recommend the film for the sake of seeing it .  the two of them run circles around each other in a set of incredible " coincidences " that i would describe as contrivances if it weren't for the film oh-so-cleverly dismissing that criticism by building its plot around " serendipity . "  of course , since the movie is about fate , the screenwriter can do anything he damn well pleases .  i'm not buying it .  there's no suspense in any of this because we know exactly what's going to happen , but serendipity insists on drilling its purportedly " adorable " non-story into our heads .  instead of " will they meet ? "  the question we're asking is " when will they meet already ? "  to make matters worse , every " coincidence " is telegraphed from a mile away ; by the last reel i was bored enough to actively look for signs that something else " incredible " was going to happen .  cusack is fine and beckinsale , at least , isn't saddled with another lumbering , clunky screenplay ( she's had bad luck , what with brokedown palace and pearl harbor on her resume ) , just an inanely pointless one .  serendipity also relieves the tedium with the amazing eugene levy , who plays a snarky bloomingdale's salesman .  what's the interest in watching a movie that spirals around and around a predestined ( no pun intended ) conclusion ?  serendipity wants to tug at the heartstrings , but it only tests our patience . 
pos@ director david fincher has such an eye for detail which is very rare in hollywood these days ( terry gilliam comes to mind as another one ) .  film is one of the best art forms because not only can you tell a story , but you can use the camera to capture the smallest detail and have it mean something .  but most directors seem to go for action with the slightest ounce of a story .  so whenever a director uses the camera to its fullest potential , the film almost automatically deserves a good review .  and when they add a fascinating story to it , you have nearly perfect entertainment .  fincher's the game is no exception to this .  the game is one of the most interesting and complex films to come out of hollywood in a long time .  fincher hasn't made a film since " seven , " his box office and critical hit which defied expectations and became one of the best movies ever .  so it is about time he made another film .  and what a ride it is .  the game isn't quite as powerful as " seven , " but in some ways it is better .  overall , the game could have used a little more clarity , or a little more uncertainty .  it walks a line of insanity and reality , but it never goes either way until the very end .  the outcome is satisfying enough for the preceding events , and it makes a lot of sense once everything is set straight .  unfortunately , unlike " the usual suspects , " we are never given enough information to figure out for ourselves what is happening , whether it be true or false .  however , this also gives the film a frightening aspect which the game uses to the fullest extent .  the game is told completely from its main character's point of view .  nicholas van orton ( michael douglas ) is a high-strung and isolated businessman .  he lives alone in his giant mansion , divorced from his wife elizabeth , and is celebrating his 48th birthday ; the same age at which his father committed suicide at , in the same mansion .  for his 48th birthday , conrad ( sean penn ) , the rebel of the family , gives nicholas a gift certificate to crs : consumer recreation services .   " it will make your life fun again , " his brother promises .  as skeptical as nicholas is , he is somewhat intrigued , and annoyed by the lack of information--something this businessman hates .  seeing a billboard in an office , he decides to visit the mysterious company .  jim feingold ( james rebhorn ) greets nicholas and guides him through the sign-up process , which consists of psych-tests , physicals , emotional responses , and other mind games .   " each game is suited to each person's emotional and psychological needs , " explains feingold .  one day , nicholas gets a call from crs and they explain that he failed the tests .  even more intrigued and now somewhat angered at the time he spent signing up , he starts asking around to see what people can tell him about the company .  what he doesn't realize is that the game has already begun .  the phone call is just the first of many strange events to be thrown nicholas' way .  how he finds out that he is involved has to be witnessed because it is amusing and fun and visually impressive .  the detail involved in fincher's shots is incredible and almost requires a second viewing just to appreciate the effort that went into them .  with " seven , " fincher had almost every single shot mean something .  he also has the unique ability to make you look at exactly what he wants you to .  compared to " seven , " though , the game is light and comical .  because of this film's sense of humor and self-awareness , nothing can be taken quite seriously .  so don't try to make much sense of what goes on in the game , because it doesn't want you to .  what does make sense is the final revelation--when everything becomes apparent and clear .  if taken as it is , the game's ending makes complete sense .  but if you try and critique every minute detail , then you get yourself into plot holes and incredibility .  perhaps that is the reason i docked the film .  while trying to remain realistic and plausible , the plot is too unbelievable to create any real tension on screen .  we don't really care if douglas' character lives or not because it isn't believable .  the ending requires you to have believed anything that has happened previously , but if you suspend disbelief and take the film as it is , you can accept the game as an emotionally and psycholically disturbing thriller .  michael douglas gives a terrific performance as nicholas .  douglas has played lonely businessmen before , but here he adds another level to his performance .  his character , who is normally level-headed and relies on facts , is forced to trust nobody .  can he believe the waitress he bumped into ?  what about his brother who got him involved in the game in the first place ?  douglas portrays this aspect of his character extremely well , and gives one of his best performances ( even better than his " falling down " persona ) .  the supporting cast is essential in this film , and casting was critical .  sean penn is always good , and he gives yet another credible performance as douglas' brother .  deborah kara unger ( from " crash " ) is the waitress he bumps into , and her performance is extremely good .  in fact , she almost steals the film from douglas .  james rebhorn portrays his character very well , and adds some confusion and desparation to douglas' predicament .  another good performance comes from armin mueller-stahl ( from " shine " ) as the book editor .  but considering that douglas is in every single scene of the game , he not only commands this cast , but makes this distant and lonely character come to colorful life .  the game is rated r for language , violence , some gore , and some nudity and drugs .  what is essential for this film to work is the writing .  john brancato and michael ferris have woven a confusing and compelling screenplay with witty dialogue , and some very funny moments .  this screenplay will probably get an oscar nomination for best original screenplay because it does almost exactly the same thing the usual suspects' did .  however , the visuals of the game are enough to make the viewer enjoy the vexing plot .  and if you can get yourself to believe everything occuring on the screen , you will be thoroughly entertained by one of this year's best films . 
neg@ there is a rule when it comes to movies .  a sequel is never as good as the original .  there are very few exceptions to this rule , and texas chainsaw massacre : the next generation is not one of them .  now if you also take into consideration that the original chainsaw massacre was a really bad movie , and that this isn't even the first sequel to it , you have a recipe for a very painful viewing experience .  don't be fooled by the presence of up and coming talents matthew mcconaughey ( a time to kill ) and renee zellweger ( jerry maguire ) .  they made this movie before they were stars .  judging by their performances they also made it before they took any acting lessons .  it's a wonder they ever worked in hollywood again after appearing in this turkey .  apparently the producers of this film realized just how bad it was , because it sat unreleased for years until someone decided that they might be able to capitalize off the success of mcconaughey and zellweger .  apparently the two young stars were none too happy about this thing ever seeing the light of day .  and i don't blame them , they would have been better off if this had been some sort of porno flick starring the two of them .  unfortunately for them it is a horror film in which zellweger plays your typically stupid horror film character .  while mcconaughey plays a guy who wears a mechanical brace on his leg that he controls with a television remote control .   ( hey , don't say i didn't warn you . )  to make matters worse , leatherface , the chainsaw wielding maniac , who was never the scariest of psychopathic killers at the best of times , has now become a full blown cross-dresser , and spends the entire movie in drag .  there is a plot to this movie but it isn't worth mentioning .  let's just suffice to say that a group of teenagers are in the typical wrong place at the wrong time and are left to the mercy of remote control man ( mcconaughey ) and his lipstick wearing chainsaw revving half-witted sidekick .  man , i can't get over just how bad this movie is .  this film has absolutely no redeeming qualities .  even the obligatory topless babe shot wasn't enough to hold my interest for more than 2 seconds .  the writing is bad , the direction is even worse , but both of those things look good in comparison to the acting .  this is the sort of movie that they should make people in prison watch .  a guarantee you , if criminals thought that they would be subjected to this film they would never break the law again . 
pos@ kolya is one of the richest films i've seen in some time .  zdenek sverak plays a confirmed old bachelor ( who's likely to remain so ) , who finds his life as a czech cellist increasingly impacted by the five-year old boy that he's taking care of .  though it ends rather abruptly-- and i'm whining , 'cause i wanted to spend more time with these characters-- the acting , writing , and production values are as high as , if not higher than , comparable american dramas .  this father-and-son delight-- sverak also wrote the script , while his son , jan , directed-- won a golden globe for best foreign language film and , a couple days after i saw it , walked away an oscar .  in czech and russian , with english subtitles . 
neg@ i guess that if a very wild bachelor party had gone really bad , there would be broken furniture , traces of smack and cocaine on the floor , and a dead prostitute in the bathroom .  i guess that if a movie had also gone really bad , there might be the same elements present .  coincidence ?  poor kyle ( a meek looking jon favreau ) . . . he is about to marry his radiant fiancee , laura ( cameron diaz ) .  but before he exchanges his vows , he embarks to las vegas with his friends for one last blowout .  but this bachelor party has gone about as bad as it could possibly get .  the prostitute has met a horrible , though accidental death , and drugs are everywhere .  the five friends agree that there is enough bad evidence here that will send them to jail for a very long time .  a surprisingly calm robert boyd ( christian slater ) , who looks like he was groomed to make nefarious decisions , ponders their dilemma for a few minutes before deciding that the best thing to do is to bury the body in the desert where she'll never be found .  although they stomach the gruesome deed of getting rid of the body ( which also disturbingly involves dismantling the body using power saws in order to stuff it into suitcases ) , when they return from their trip , guilt and paranoia begins to set in which slowly consumes some of the five friends .  one is adam ( daniel stern ) he grows increasingly agitated .  whenever people look at his van or whenever a cop glances his way , his blood pressure increases .  or that just may be because of his dysfunctional family .  another is michael , who was actually responsible for her death .  he tries to bury his feelings , but the burden of guilt begins to affect his judgment as well .  boyd is the ? doer' of the group .  seemingly suffering from a long psychosis , when he feels as if his secret is about to be exposed , he is apt to take extreme measures to cover up his tracks .  kyle just hopes that his wedding will live up to laura's demanding expectations .  then , there's moore ( leland orser ) who speaks 5 lines and walks around with a puzzled look on his face .  the problem with this reprehensible movie is that it wants to be a cruel comedy , but it presents things in a manner that just aren't funny .  drugs , mutilation , and killing your own friends isn't something to be laughed at .  as a straight psychological drama , i could see how it might have worked , as each one tried to maneuver and overcome the weight of their own guilt in their own sometimes-sick ways .  but this movie insults us by assuming that we could simply discard our values for 2 hours .  if you do like this movie , i don't think that i want to know you .  i did find slater a convincing leader who sways his friends to choose not the right thing but the ? smart play . '  and diaz adds some brightness to this film as a wedding-needing fiancee .  but her talents are essentially wasted here .  it's obvious that the film maker is trying to strike a certain tone .  but the way that he chooses to do it is tasteless .  do not make a very bad decision by seeing this film . 
pos@ hedwig ( john cameron mitchell ) was born a boy named hansel in east berlin .  as a teen seeking his " other half , " he reluctantly agrees to a sex change operation in order to marry american g . i .  luther ( maurice dean wint ) .  the operation , performed by a hack surgeon , is botched , and the " angry inch " is all that's left .  now a " she " , hedwig comes to america , is abandoned by luther , forms a rock band and falls for her 17-year old lover/prot ? g ? , tommy , only to be rejected by him later , too .  she and her band , the angry inch , shadows the now-famous tommy gnosis across the us ( for revenge ? ) , but hedwig is really in search of her lost other half in " hedwig and the angry inch . "  first time helmer john cameron mitchell , along with composer/lyricist stephen trask , created and starred in their acclaimed off-broadway production that has become the movie .  and quite a movie it is in its eclectic variety of songs , outrageous costumes , sets and makeup and , especially , a riveting performance by mitchell as the title character .  mitchell and trask have reinvented the movie musical and couple it with the underlying story of just whom hedwig is and what she is looking for .  i am , by far , not a big fan of musicals .  sure , there are exceptions , like bob fosse's " all that jazz " and " cabaret , " but , for the most part , they are just not my cup of tea .   " hedwig and the angry inch " is an exception , though , with its combination of humor , wit and a collection of tunes that covers musical styles ranging from " the rocky horror picture show " and meatloaf to david bowie to the sex pistols .  the original songs , by stephen trask ( also appearing as one of the members of the band the angry inch ) , are full of energy and variety and , even though it's not my kind of music , i found every one entertaining and fun .  the audience i saw " hedwig " with thought so , too .  the main attraction to this one-man/woman show is the presence of its star .  john cameron mitchell gives a solid , sometimes fun , sometimes angry performance as a person searching for self-enlightenment and love .  as a young boy growing up in east berlin , hansel is abused by his g . i .  father and raised by his german mother in a tiny flat so small that " mother would make me play in the oven " where he listened to pop music on armed forces radio .  later , as a young man , he meets luther , another g . i .  and is swept off of his feet .  the ensuing angry inch incident comes soon after .  flash forward to a trailer park in junction city , kansas , and luther is leaving hedwig for another boy .  frustrated and broke , she takes on baby-sitting and the odd " job " to make ends meet .  she also forms a band with four korean housewives and the musical talent of hedwig is born .  she meets , falls for and loses young tommy , who steals her songs and goes off to become a rock sensation .  jealous and angry , hedwig and her new band begins a campaign to shadow tommy's tours and , with the help of her manager , phyllis stein ( andrea martin ) , is trying get a law suit going against the star for stealing her songs .  hedwig and the angry inch get gigs , not coincidentally , at a chain of seafood restaurants that just happen to be next to the forums where tommy gnosis is playing .  things finally come to a head , so to speak , in new york city .  the popularity of the off-broadway musical and its offshoots have garnered a ready-made audience base for " hedwig . "  the wit , humor , music and search for identity has great appeal to young adults , but the charismatic presence of mitchell makes this a cut above what it could have been .  it is this one-man/woman show that casts its spotlight on its " internationally ignored " rock star and mitchell is outstanding in the role .  there isn't a lot going on with other characters , though there are amusing little sidebars , like hedwig's backup singer/lover , yitzak ( miriam shor ) , deciding to break away from the band to join a polynesian road show of " rent " as a puerto rican drag queen .  the low budget that the moviemakers have for the production belies the quality of the film .  attention to details - hedwig's costumes and outrageous " cabaret " -like makeup ; the seedy trailer park setting ; and , the kitschy seafood restaurants - are loads of fun to watch and lend the appropriate air to the proceeds , all on what has to be a beer budget .   " hedwig and the angry inch " may not be for everybody , but the energy of the effort , the songs , the imaginative sets and costumes and a fast steady pace make it a pleasure to watch .  if you're a fan of contemporary , edgy music , it is an even bigger draw .  i give it a b+ . 
neg@ a number of critics have decided that it's open season on freddie prize jr . , slamming the young actor as an utterly talentless pretty boy on career cruise control in sound-alike , disposable teen fluff like " head over heels , " " boys and girls , " " down to you " and " she's all that . "  while the prinze oeuvre is hard to defend , his talent is not .  i first saw him in the independent dark comedy " the house of yes , " where he gave a subtle , impressive performance as the younger brother in one of america's freakiest families .  prinze has the acting chops ; he just needs to take a few supporting roles in some grown-up movies to show the non-believers that he has what it takes .   " summer catch " certainly won't help his case .  inoffensive , but utterly generic , the baseball-related romantic comedy does little more than kill time .  the story deals with the love affair between tenley ( jessica biel ) , a wealthy cape cod girl and ryan ( prinze ) , a local boy from a working class family who dreams of becoming a big-time baseball star .  ryan's preoccupation with his new honey-bunny drives her elitist father ( bruce davison ) crazy and endangers his position as pitcher with a cape cod summer league team .  it's a wonder the kid has any time to pitch , as his time is occupied with making out with tenley , fighting with her dad , bonding with his own dad ( fred ward , who deserves better than this ) , fighting with his brother ( jason gedrick ) and carousing at a neighborhood bar with his teammates .  the filmmakers desperately want to make a quirky , character-heavy baseball movie like " bull durham , " but haven't got a clue how to get there .  and so they glide from one clich ? to the next for 108 minutes .  the only bit of originality comes from marc blucas in a minor role as a center-fielder from texas .  in an early barroom scene , blucas , best known as demon-fighting riley finn from " buffy the vampire slayer , " hears a young woman compliment a guy on his ass , then turns to teammate matthew lillard and states , " he does have a nice ass .  a bubble butt . "  when lillard gives him an " are you insane ? "  look , blucas calmly says , " it's nothing sexual , " then goes on to evaluate the hind-ends of some other players , including lillard's .  speaking of asses , prinze does not bare his in the movie .  the actor has a no nudity clause in his contract , so two stunt-butts were employed for a couple of semi-nude shots .  blucas , whose character secretly dates a large woman throughout the story , gets another unique moment late in the film .  sick of hearing teammates make " fat chick " jokes , he climbs on top of a table and loudly declares his love of amply-sized ladies .  while his speech still ends up objectifying women , it remains a nice change of pace in a numbingly ordinary movie .  trivial tidbit : " summer catch " marks a scooby doo summit .  marc blucas appears in " jay and silent bob strike back " as fred from the scooby doo gang , while freddie prinze jr . plays the same character in the upcoming big budget film version of the old cartoon . 
pos@ bruce barth's mellow piano plays in the background as conflict erupts in a little country town of florida .  ulee's gold feels like another fonda creation- on golden pond : it has a soft , calm surface with a tempest brewing underneath , the cinematography creates a place of gold , yellow , and olive colors , the music is stirring and tranquil .  both deal with the hardships of family life .  peter fonda gives his undoubtedly best performance in victor nu ? ez's new film and patricia richardson ( home improvement star ) shows she is worthy of big screen attention .  nu ? ez is probably independent film's greatest asset , along with john sayles , and he proves his talent with a slow pace and undulating , heavy tension .  peter fonda's performance borrows from his father henry fonda's in on golden pond- there is a great vulnerability that he gives the character ulee jackson and just like his father , peter fonda is quiet , emotional , and weary in this exceptional role .  ulee jackson , the film's protagonist , is struggling .  pressure is mounting at the wrong time .  he is a beekeeper and this is his " busy " season .  he has to deal with his two granddaughters' needs and erupting hormones , he is forced to pick up his daughter-in-law in orlando who is strung out on drugs and take care of her , and he is faced with a challenging task : unsettled business his son , who is now in prison , has left behind .  he finds his daughter-in-law , helen , with the two men his son robbed a bank with .  she has apparently told these two men that the money that resulted from the robbery is with her husband .  that is why he got caught- the police found him with the money .  now the two men are demanding they get the cash , or they will come after ulee's two granddaughters .  ulee promises he will bring it to them and takes a deranged helen back to his serene little home where her two children that she abandoned scrutinize her with contempt .  ulee is a man who lost his pals in war- he was the only man in his platoon to survive .  he refuses help from anybody and does not respond to affectionate gestures .  he is a bitter , closed-off man whose only passion is his beekeeping , his granddaughters , and his dead wife .  connie , his next door neighbor , finally gets through to him with friendly favors .  she is a nurse and helps helen get through her turmoil with drugs .  ulee's gold is the story of a man who believes he is fine as he is- until the truth is revealed painfully to him : he is cold and unfeeling .  of course , in the end , ulee softens up , but his journey is absorbing and we have fallen in love with his tiredness and weariness .  what is admirable about the movie is peter fonda's winning turn as ulee and the story that feels like nobody's fool but , in the end , ends up in a class of its own . 
neg@ ahh yes .  the teenage romance .  an attractive young cast is pitted into an unlikely scenario that could only happen in the movies , and in the end , the guy always gets the girl .  and with the arrival of the breakout hit `she's all that' last year ( followed by a long catalogue of imitators including `10 things i hate about you' and `drive me crazy' ) , the genre previously on life support is once again a hot commodity .  along now comes `down to you' .  the folks at miramax are obviously trying to capitalize on the rabid `she's all that' craze with their latest project , which has the studdly freddie prinze jr . attached and all .  only `down to you' doesn't have the ? unlikely scenario' mentioned above .  it is an extraordinarily ordinary romance - a dull , unattractive teen comedy that sticks to the boring game plan that we're accustomed to .  this is the kind of romance that only giggly 12-year old girls will find convincing .  in strictly textbook fashion , college sophomore and aspiring chef al ( prinze jr . ) meets freshman artist imogen ( julia stiles ) .  they hit it off like a couple can only in the movies .  from here , it's the standard boy-meets-girl , boy-loses-girl , boy-drinks-entire-bottle-of-shampoo-and-may-or-may-not-get-girl-back story .  the plot is conveniently assembled to suit the requirements of the main characters , who are frequently taking part in activities that . . . .  well , only happen in the movies .  fortunately , the cast of `down to you' has a certain appeal .  freddie prinze jr . and julia stiles are an adorable couple , and when on screen together , they radiate the sort of warmth and charisma that the movie should have centered around .  zak orth , as the newly realized porn star monk , shows an unmistakable flair with handling all of the film's intelligent dialogue .  rounding out the impressive ensemble of young talent are shawn hatosy ( `the faculty' ) , selma blair ( `cruel intentions' ) and ashton kutcher ( tv's `that 70's shows' ) .  even the fonz himself - henry winkler , the epitome of teenage angst and nostalgia - has a welcome role as al's dad , the host of the popular cooking program `chef ray' .  maybe the concept of `down to you' looked good on paper to draw such a crowd .  as a feature film , however , the finished product is bland and tasteless fluff with only an occasional whiff of cuteness to keep the gears from stopping entirely .  perhaps worst of all , `down to you' is not funny .  the jokes are drawn from obvious sources and the resulting humor is banal and uninspired .  the characters on screen , often laughing at each other's goofy/embarrassing antics , seemed far more amused than the audience .  even the giggly 12-year old girls had grown restless toward the end as they waited impatiently for the formula to run it's course .  the one mildly clever segment featured winkler and prinze jr . in a fantasy sequence called `cooks' , a `cops' take-off in which the father and son would storm houses and cook a decent meal for ? needy' families ( with the assistance of a fully-armed swat team , of course ) .  when this is the highlight reel , you know the remaining film could leave something to be desired .  in order to make a teen comedy work , you've got to have characters that show something by way of depth and identity .  `10 things i hate about you' actually featured characters who were more than walking flashcards , and the result was refreshing .  no such luck with `down to you' .  it's just a textbook romance where , despite absurd circumstances , everything is bound to work out in the end .  and at the end of the whole clich ? d ordeal , the nicest thing you could possibly say would be ` . . . .  only in the movies' . 
pos@ with the exception of their surrealistic satire barton fink , the films of joel and ethan coen fit into two broad categories : quirky and sometimes darkly humorous takes on the " film noir " genre in which crime schemes go wrong and spin increasingly out of control ( fargo , miller's crossing , blood simple ) , and off-the-wall comedies centered around an eccentric , scatter-brained lead character ( raising arizona , the hudsucker proxy ) .  their latest offering , the big lebowski , falls within the latter category , though there are elements of the crime-gone-wrong theme and even a touch of satire to be found in this film .  the main difference , however , is that while the protagonists of raising arizona and the hudsucker proxy had lofty aspirations and ideals but didn't quite have the brains to get it all together , the main character of the big lebowski seems like a fairly intelligent guy who's wise to the world , but he doesn't really want to do much of anything besides go bowling , smoke pot , and generally relax .  that main character is jeffrey " the dude " lebowski ( jeff bridges ) , introduced by the film's rambling narrator ( sam elliott ) as " quite possibly the laziest man in los angeles county . "  the dude is unemployed , needless to say , and spends most of his time at the bowling alley with his two best friends , walter ( john goodman ) , a borderline-psychotic who's in the habit of pulling a gun when he thinks somebody's cheating in a bowling match ( " has the whole world gone crazy ? ! " he shouts at a suspected cheater ) , and donny ( steve buscemi ) , who's always a few steps behind the conversation and is constantly berated by walter for it ( " donny , you have no frame of reference here ! " ) .  these three seem to more or less live for bowling tournaments , and as the film begins they are anticipating an important match with rival bowler jesus quintana ( john turturro ) , who , when we first meet him , is doing a dance in the bowling lane to accompany a spanish version of " hotel california " and , if it's possible , seems to be even more of a head case than walter .  if that doesn't give you a good idea of this film's absurdist tone , then perhaps this will : the entire scenario which drives the story is set in motion by two thugs mistakenly urinating on the dude's rug .  they've mistaken him for a millionaire of the same name who is also known as the " big " lebowski ( david huddleston ) and whose nymphomaniac wife bunny ( tara reid ) owes money to porn producer jackie treehorn ( ben gazzara ) .  the dude goes to the big lebowski seeking compensation for his ruined rug ; he doesn't have any luck , but when bunny is apparently kidnapped , the elder lebowski asks him to deliver the $1 million ransom .  unfortunately , walter gets involved and fouls up the drop-off , and before they can try again to get the money to the supposed kidnappers , the dude's car gets stolen , along with the briefcase containing the money .  soon , the dude is being harassed not only by the big lebowski himself but also by treehorn and by a group of german " nihilists " who demand the ransom money even though they may not have been involved in the kidnapping in the first place ; the dude and walter suspect that bunny may well have kidnapped herself in order to extort money from her husband to repay her debts to treehorn .  meanwhile , the big lebowski's daughter maude ( julianne moore ) , a feminist avant-garde artist who likes to make grand entrances swinging through the air naked , wants to recover the money for her family .  the plot , however , is really just a vehicle for all these bizarre characters to run wild and wreak their own unique forms of havoc .  the previews for the big lebowski feature creedence clearwater revival's " run through the jungle , " and it fits : the coens see los angeles as a veritable jungle of oddballs and nutcases , with the sometimes bewildered dude left to run through it and try to avoid any more trouble ( usually unsuccessfully ) .  the film doesn't feature quite as many one-liners and sight gags as the coens' other comedies ( though there are a few hilarious moments of visual humor , particularly in the dude's dream sequences and acid flashbacks ) , but it more than makes up for it with the sheer fun of watching these strange characters interact .  the film sometimes seems a little disjointed as a result - you get the feeling that the coens have not only set their characters loose in this " jungle " but are also themselves running crazy through the jungle of their own twisted imaginations - but for the most part the characterizations are interesting enough to overcome the shaky plotting and what turns out to be a somewhat anticlimactic resolution .  there's also a noticeable ( but not too heavy-handed ) thread of social commentary in the big lebowski , which , incidentally , takes place just as the gulf war is about to begin ; at the beginning , we see george bush on television making his " this aggression will not stand " speech .  the coens take aim at just about every elite l . a . subculture in the book : the egotistical wealthy businessman ( " the bums will always lose ! "  shouts the big lebowski at one point ) , the porn industry , the overbearing malibu policeman who berates the dude for disturbing their " peaceful beach community , " and so on .  by the end , we really start to admire the dude , who almost certainly harbors the least " aggression " of anyone in this story ; his passive resistance ( emphasis on " passive , " albeit ) to the elite emerges as something more than just another quirky characterization in a film overflowing with quirky characters .  he also turns out to have a pretty well-functioning brain in his head , even if he doesn't like to use it very much ; his sarcasm towards treehorn and the malibu policeman shows that he knows when he's getting a run around , and he does manage to unravel the kidnapping mystery by the end .  the coens certainly poke fun at the dude for his laziness , but they don't just treat him as fodder for cheap shots either .  i think that , more than anything , is what makes the big lebowski a standout comedy : it manages to approach characters like the dude and , to some extent , walter , with genuine affection while still acknowledging that they are pretty scatter-brained .  audience members may find themselves surprised at how much they like the un-dynamic duo by the end of the movie , given that they seemed like nothing more than the butts of an extended joke at first .   " it's good knowin' he's out there , the dude , takin' it easy , " posits the narrator towards the end .  i dare say that truer words have seldom been spoken . 
neg@ a highly intelligent life form that is completely electronic in nature , beams itself onto a russian science vessel .  well , this is the point where the movie strays from becoming a decent and original movie and simply becomes a predictable sci-fi thriller .  anyhow , this life form takes control of the computers on the russian vessel then starts creating highly advanced robots to help it in its gruesome task of exterminating the ? virus' known as man .  the original crew of the russian vessel is all but exterminated , and then a hapless crew on a tug discovers the derelict ship and tries to salvage it .  no more needs to be said as to what happens and where the conflict lies , the movie is that predictable .  the story is full of very shallow characters that don't do much other than subsist .  the captain of the tug , played by donald sutherland , makes irrational choice after irrational choice leaving the audience wondering as to how he has survived long enough to reach his age ( looks to be in his 60's ) .  to add to this we're shown this motley crew that at times seems to be highly skilled in specific fields , and at others seems barely capable of basic tasks .  some of the supposed capabilities of the characters leads one to wonder what they are doing on a tug transporting cargo in the middle of the pacific , in a typhoon no less .  none of the characters seem to work together at all ; they are always bickering and vying for some form of control .  this makes no sense what so ever and only takes away from the story , a story that is full of holes and is extremely predictable .  all the flaws of the actual story are only helped along by the special effects .  the waves that are generated to be part of the typhoon make it look like boat was is small model sitting in a tub and someone is simply creating waves .  it looks genuinely fake , granted trying to recreate a typhoon or hurricane cannot be easy by any stretch of the imagination but having the storm approach in a style similar to the huge wave of deep impact only ends up looking corny and amateurish .  also on the topic of flaws , the robotics that the advanced life form creates seem to move extremely slowly , why ?  if this life form that is so advanced as to be able to create these robotics , should it not be able to create them move faster ?  regardless , the special effects in this movie in many cases take away from the film rather than add to it .  as to the actual casting for the movie , finally there is nothing to complain about .  the actors were superb , but then again it is highly doubtful that chimpanzees would have had difficulty acting the roles .  having the cast that was present probably saved this movie from being an absolute catastrophe .  watching these actors act this story out made it bearable , if barely .  the one saving grace of this movie is that it was highly action packed and there always seemed to be something happening .  so if you are going into this movie not expecting to see anything grand and are only going to kill some time and watch a mediocre sci-fi thriller then you won't be too disappointed .  as the movie is but the latest in a genre that was originally created by aliens , it does little more than try to cash in on that aspect .  this movie would be best left for video and even then you might be advised to simply wait for one of the major networks to air it on tv . 
pos@ the release of dolores claiborne into wide release this weekend adds another entry into the long list of film adaptations of stephen king's work .  this slow-moving character study provides some outstanding acting performances by the principals , but suffers from a tepid conclusion , inconsistent direction , and may not have wide commercial appeal .  when the maid , dolores claiborne , is found brandishing a rolling pin standing over the bloody and dead body of her employer , it seems like an open-and-shut murder case .  upon hearing of the death via a mysterious fax , dolores' estranged and bitter daughter , esquire magazine writer selena st . george , returns from new york back to her tiny island village childhood home .  as the two clash horns , the story behind the mysterious death of dolores' abusive husband two decades ago , ruled an accident despite the protests of detective john mackey , is revealed .  did dolores kill her husband ?  and did she kill her employer ?  dolores claiborne is certainly more of a character study than a suspense thriller .  consequently , it is fortunate that their cast includes some of hollywood's finest character actors , such as bates , leigh and strathairn .  kathy bates plays the film's title character , and gives a sensational lead performance .  dolores claiborne is essentially a showcase for the talent of bates , as her character has a huge amount of screen time .  she dominates the screen , producing a character that is compelling and arresting , as we watch the character go through two decades of history via flashbacks .  kathy bates' performance is award-calibre stuff .  the rest of the cast is also very good .  jennifer jason leigh plays the perpetually sour , bitter helena st . george well , and christopher plummer seems to be enjoying himself as dolores' ever-present nemesis , the determined detective john mackey .  david strathairn is particularly interesting and suitably smarmy and despicable as dolores' husband , joe st . george .  judy parfitt is fine as dolores' tyrannic socialite employer , vera donovan--it would have been interesting to see , say , meg foster in this role .  child actor ellen muth is also worth noting as the young selena during the flashback sequences ; she is very impressive .  the direction of dolores claiborne by taylor hackford wildly varies throughout the film , ranging from some parts which are quite clever in their own right , to parts which are embarrassingly hokey .  the segues between flashbacks and the present are very hit-and-miss in terms of effectiveness .  the pacing of the film tends to be numbingly slow , which tends to undermine any suspense which might be built up .  however , the cinematography by gabriel beristain is wonderful--i particularly like the chilling ice-blue hue permeating the present-day scenes , contrasting well with the many nova scotia ocean shots--and danny elfman provides a surprisingly understated score for the film .  it would seem that the commercial potential of dolores claiborne is limited .  none of the performers in the film could be classified as a big draw , and its pacing may be a turn-off to those expecting a gripping suspense film filled with twists and turns and car crashes and axe-wielding psychopaths .  although being essentially the only film in its genre in release now , it may also be hurt by the negative perception of king works , even with the recent critical success of the shawshank redemption and the stand .  dolores claiborne suffers from a very unsatisfying conclusion , and moves very slowly .  however , the performances are uniformly excellent , particularly kathy bates , and the film has its moments .  on my four-star scale , i give dolores claiborne three stars . 
neg@ adam sandler vehicles are never anything special , but continue to make a load of money .  which really goes to show the sad state of cinema today .  while good comedies like rushmore , to choose a recent example , gets limited release and doesn't make a lot of money , big daddy got a huge release and has made a lot of cash .  it's also nothing special and doesn't deserve the money it's making .  but i digress .  sandler plays sonny koufax , a unemployed new yorker with a seemingly low mental age .  his girlfriend makes a ultimatum to him : either wise up and get responsible , or she's leaving him .  by a strange set of events , koufax ends up with julian ( played by twins cole and dylan sprouse ) a five year old kid .  after a failed attempt to impress his girlfriend with the child , koufax decides he wants to keep the child .  however , social worker mr brooks ( mostel ) finds out that koufax isn't the real father and wants to take julian back .  koufax along with his new girlfriend layla ( lauren adams ) fight to keep the child .  big daddy really isn't that good .  many of the jokes revolve around toilet humour , and supposedly we are meant to find julian and sonny peeing against a wall to be funny .  there's the occasional good one liner , but these are usually strangely delivered wrong and lose most of the humour .  the film , after all these silly gags , then suddenly turns sentimental , and this is where big daddy really goes from bad to hideous .  the court scene at the end of the film is useless and unbelievable , and not helped by the soppy overacting .  it's a poor attempt to win over the audience .  adam sandler basically plays the same role he has in his last few films ( except the wedding singer . )  joey lauren adams is much , much better , and deserves a far better film than this trash .  steve buscemi pops up in a funny cameo , and his scenes are pretty funny .  rob schneider is also funny as a crazy delivery man .  the two twins who play julian are o . k , they start out rather well , but then becoming annoying and brattish halfway through and finally turn 'all american' wholesome goodness at the end of the film , where the tear juice is turned up high .  big daddy is really nothing special , and is not even worth it for a few chuckles .  although it is actually well put together , with nice direction , good production design and even some montages , this professionalism can't help the fact that the script and characters are trash .  big daddy is for die hard fans of sandler , and that's about it . 
pos@ every once in a while you see a film that is so effective in delivering the goods that it is easy to forget , and forgive , its glaring imperfections .  such is the case with ? good will hunting ? , a subtle character study about a socially inept mathematics genius who struggles to find his path in life .  despite some serious character problems , this is still a very good film .  you probably know about the plot so i ? ll make it quick .  will hunting ( damon ) is a janitor at m . i . t . , he ? s really smarter than einstein but nobody knows it .  he likes to go out with his friend chuckie ( affleck ) and their other working-class buddies and drink beer .  he ? s good-looking , charismatic , and witty but has a terrible time with authority and stiff college folk .  after getting into a tiff with the law , a distinguished professor ( skarsg ? rd ) discovers will ? s genius and offers him a chance to clean up his record and avoid jail time , at a price : he must attend weekly sessions with a therapist and work on various mathematical problems ( that have stumped the academic elite ) with the professor .  after outsmarting and scaring the hell out of a couple of different psychologists he meets his match when hooked up with a once-promising therapist named sean maguire ( williams ) who has his own problems .  in the meantime will meets a british medical school student ( driver ) and they begin to fall in love .  the story starts out well enough and is a pretty original basis for a film .  even though we ? ve seen movies about misunderstood , erratic prodigies before ( ? shine ? ring a bell ? ) , the script here creates a complex narrative that doesn ? t just focus solely on one character .  alas though , this is not a perfect film , as much as you feel like it could ? ve been while watching it .  the one real problem i had with it is the unrealistic nature of the main character .  is it possible for a lowly janitor to be this intelligent ?  of course .  is it possible for him to be estranged from any deep , human relationships ?  usually , yes .  but , is it possible for him to also be so handsome , funny , quick with the tongue , and city-street tough ?  not very likely .  come on , usually these guys are total nerds who can ? t even buy their own shirts , much less talk down a harvard student in a hip pub while picking up phone numbers from pretty med . -school  girls .  will is just a little too perfect , and in order to accept the character your disbelief suspension needs to be in excellent working condition .  the heavy-handed , anti-war statement made by will at a government job interview late in the film is also boorish , overlong , pompous , and completely unnecessary .  all this sounds pretty bad , but the film somehow makes up for it in other ways .  damon ? s acting overshadows the fact that the character is slightly unbelievable , his performance is truly extraordinary .  which leads me to the really good part of the review .  the strength of this movie can be summed up in one single word : acting .  i can ? t recall seeing a film recently that was so well-acted from top to bottom .  from minnie driver ? s frustrated lover to ben affleck ? s laid-back best friend , and all the small roles in between , the performances are magnificent .  robin williams ? skill is a given as a bereaved psychologist who could ? ve had a legendary career but was knocked off the path somewhere down the line .  the real gem though is stellan skarsg ? rd ? s turn as professor lambeau , an award-winning mathematician who feels reduced in comparison to a younger , smarter will hunting .  the scenes between williams and skarsg ? rd , as two old college pals who ? ve been brought back together by this enigmatic kid , display some of the best acting i ? ve ever seen .  when i say delivering the goods , this is what i ? m talking about .  watching these two work is what going to see movies is all about .  gus van sant ? s ( to die for , drugstore cowboy ) cold , urban direction is right on , as well as danny elfman ? s sauntering musical score .  i highly recommend ? good will hunting ? .  despite its faults , it is still an intriguing and fascinating film and you are not likely to see a better acted one this year . 
neg@ one of the most blatantly obvious signs that often-acclaimed director sidney lumet's " gloria , " a remake of the 1980 john cassavetes film , had absolutely no effect on me occurred when i was driving home from the theatre .  suddenly , i realized that since i had stood up from my theatre seat five minutes before , i had not thought once about the film i had just invested nearly two hours of my life in .  when a movie is over , aren't we supposed to think about it for a while , and have a conversation about it with the acquaintances we have just watched it with ?  i thought so , but , for one , i saw this particular picture by myself , and #2 , even if i had been with someone there wouldn't have been anything to talk about in the first place .  to be sure , " gloria " begins with a stirring , rather poignant prologue in which a seven-year-old boy's family is brutally gunned down by mobsters , in search of a disc his father had with incriminating evidence on it .  right before the men broke in , of course , his father gave him the disc to escape with .  eventually , the boy , named nicky nunez ( jean-luke figueroa ) , is caught by the mobsters , and taken back to their apartment .  meanwhile , gloria ( sharon stone ) has just gotten out of prison for a crime she didn't commit and returns to her ex-boyfriend ( jeremy northam ) to recieve the money he promised her for covering up his crime .  when he refuses to give it to her , and then hears the group of men talking about killing nicky , she leaves with him in order to save his life , but not before holding the men at gunpoint , stealing all of their money , and forcing them to strip nude .  gloria is the type of fast-talking , smart-mouthed new yorker who always seems to get involved with the wrong people , and she never expected to be stuck with a kid , but she has a heart of gold ( don't they always in this type of movie ) and is only trying to protect the boy , whom she quickly begins to form a close bond with .  the previous incarnation of " gloria " by cassavetes and starring the luminous gena rowlands , remains unseen by me , but was no doubt superior , even though i can't really imagine how this considerably dull story could be transformed into an entertaining one , regardless of the director or stars .  there is no doubt in my mind that director lumet has stuck closely to the original , but the film itself is simply lifeless , with only an occasional laugh popping up here and there so that it isn't completely unbearable to watch .  i liked , for example , a very funny climactic sequence where gloria is deciding whether to leave the school she has left the boy at , and keeps turning the car around , then driving a little ways , then slamming on the brakes and turning around again .  these bright moments , however , appear long and far between , and the majority of the film deals with the budding relationship between nicky and gloria , which is both painfully predictable and by-the-numbers .  throughout , my mind was repeatedly asking the question , " who really cares ? "  as gloria , sharon stone has adopted an over-the-top brooklyn accent that honestly doesn't sound realistic at all .  in the beginning , in fact , i was amazed at how amateurish stone's performance was , but as the film progressed she got better .  although not one of her better turns , stone does have a comic flare that refuses to be ignored .  jean-luke figeroa was fine as nicky and a little more natural than the usual child actors who are so precocious they make you want to gag .  all other actors who appeared were considerably wasted , none more than cathy moriarty , an entertaining actress in her own right , who is billed fourth and has all of one scene , as gloria's friend whom she turns to for help .  sony , the studio that released " gloria , " obviously does not have any faith in the film , and i don't blame them .  they declined to screen the picture for critics , which is never a good sign , particularly with the high-profile people involved .  although how much money a movie makes does not determine how good it is ( just look at the spectacular " in dreams , " which failed to even make the top 10 last week ) , i have a suspicion " gloria " is going to vanish from theaters faster than " ishtar , " judging from the opening night 7 : 00 p . m . showing i saw it at , where there were about ten to fifteen people present , counting myself .  although stone can be an impressive actress ( just watch her in 1995's " casino " or 1996's " last dance " if you don't believe me ) and sidney lumet can be a respectable director , there is no reasoning for why they thought the cliched story of " gloria " was worth remaking or , for that matter , why columbia pictures agreed to finance it when they could have been making a picture that actually looked like it might have an inkling of a chance to be successful . 
pos@ it may seem weird to begin a film about glam rock with a sequence that includes a spaceship , a green ovular pin , and the birth of oscar wilde , but if one really strains , they can see that perhaps maybe these connections are not half off .  wilde's philosophy was that everyone should be true to their own human nature , and the result of his following this philosophy was that he was imprisoned , loosing his family and his career .  the glam rock movement in the early 70s in england had a similar take and came to a similar demise .  the main difference was by placing makeup on their face and acting out on their deepest fantasies and inquiries about life ( mostly dealing with androgony and sexuality ) , they became less and less like themselves and more and more like everyone else .  and that's why the movement seemed to end as soon as it began .  it's been said that todd haynes' " velvet goldmine , " the film that chronicles what it was like to be a part of the movement , not only from those who experienced it but by those who created it , steals a lot from " citizen kane , " and that's true .  in the film , a british journalist in the 80s , arthur stuart ( christian bale ) , is asked to go back and find out what happened to 70s glam rock star brian slade , a fictitious rock star , who faked his own death on stage , bringing the end not only to his career but to the entire glam rock movement .  structure-wise , this totally steals from " kane , " not only from the set-up ( he interviews three people , and the story is a result of their flashbacks ) , but in other things , like the beginning ( death , then newsreel ) , and smaller details , like the bitter ex-friend in a wheelchair and the bitter ex-wife as a washed-up lounge singer , found in a bar after hours .  this is no " kane , " and it really doesn't aspire to be : it doesn't attempt to be the deep outlook of something gone like " kane " did , and it doesn't really uncover anything poignant about humanity .  instead , it uses the flashbacks as a form of contrast between the magic that was the glam rock era and the boredom that was life after glam rock for those who were participants .  the 80s scenes are dry and deliriously melancholy , equipped with a performance by bale that is perhaps appropriately dull and unengaging .  but the 70s scenes are engaging , though , not to mention addictively campy .  they radiate with gorgeous cinematography that nicely accentuates all the vibrant colors of the era , and a feel that's so eerily lighthearted that when combined with the then-footage , they become not only a symbol of decadence , but of times when everything seemed so simple .  instead of creating the world the way it was , haynes paints their own world as if it were a narcotic fairy tale : the glam rock movement was full of so much freedom and liberation that after you've experienced it , everything else seems so mundane .  there's no outside world to speak of , secluding these people inside a protective globe that will eventually crack .  haynes focuses his story on the tale of blade and the other fictitious rock hero , curt wild , and their relationship that created , molded , and then brought down the movement , reducing everyone else who contributed to it as merely that - contributors .  blade - played with reserve by the pouty jonathan rhys meyers - and wild - played with anarchic wildness by ewan mcgregor - are little more than thinly disguised recreations of david bowie and iggy pop , respectively , complete with the creation of a ziggy stardust persona named maxwell demon and the confirmation that the two rock stars may have very well not only have been one-time partners in music , but also partners in bed .  through discussions with slade's ex-manager cecil ( michael feast ) , ex-wife mandy ( toni collette , reinventing herself as an american blonde dish who fakes a british accent when with slade ) , and finally ex-partner wild , journalist stuart begins to remember his own experiences in the era , like his discovery of his rebelliousness cum conformity , including the moment when he began questioning his own sexuality ( when he opens up his first slade record , he finds a naked and green slade lying on a crimson blanket ) , and finally running away from home to be part of the london scene , finally resulting in leading a boring job in america .  haynes demonstrates that he's quite the visual auteur , molding scenes that are like long heald breaths , such as a seemingly long sequence juxtaposing a slade/wild concert of them performing a brian eno cover , " baby's on fire , " with scenes from a decadent drug party ; and the film's most wow-inspiring sequence , the first concert scene of wild with his band , the ratttz , where mcgregor lets loose so much anarchic steam that his wild iggy-esuqe movements ( including stripping naked ) and screams that the film captures that perfect moment when one discovers a major talent , and another ( slade ) discovers his idle .  even the brief music videos , spoofs of bowie's , have a rare visual flair that's pure camp , and which would cause ken russell to drool .  the best sequence , though , may be the beginning , following the prelude , a sequence which acts as the middle ground for both the actual being of the movement and the post-movement era .  in it , stuart and his mates are going to the infamous slade concert where he fakes his own death , where he kills off his alter ego maxwell demon in what appears to be a real assasination , which brought about the end of the era in one swift fake bullet .  with brian eno's famous " needle in the camel's eye " playing in the background , the scene has a detached exhileration - the song doesn't seem to be played in quite the same way the other songs are .  it has a distance that's hard to put a finger on , and it seems to represent that all this is coming to a quick and sad ending , and when one sees slade in the dressing room before the show , docked in a silver frock with wings and blue hair , depressingly staring into the mirror , it comes off as a none-too-obvious prophecy of the finale in the beginning of the film .  this movie's not so much about plot , but more about the way it is presented , making this one of those films which is classified as being " style over substance , " a statement which prompts many critics to line up for attack .  however , for the most part , the engaging part of this film is not the story but rather the way in which haynes creates this world , by using his sets , costumes , cinematography , and especially the music to play as characters in his film .  the music is especially notable .  the soundtrack , which is wall to wall , consists of old school glam rock tunes by the likes of brian eno , t-rex , and roxy music , as well as covers by slade's band ( with vocals by thom yorke , and occasionally rhys meyers himself ) , and even newer music by shudder to think that sounds uncannily bowie-like .  the cast is rather impressive , but no one really walks away with the film , and no performances are extremely good .  although eddie izzard , as slade's manager ( who challenges slade's first manager to an arm-wrestling match to see who gets control of his career ) and michael feast as the first and tragic manager come off greatly , and collette and mcgregor have their moments , rhys meyers and bale are noticably sub-par , neither putting a lot of effort into their respective roles .  some of it is at fault with the actual construction of the film by haynes .  rhys meyers' brian slade remains merely a metaphor for the glam rock era , dying when he turned into a retro-garbo , resorting to a life of salinger-ism , and found in the mid-70s to be lying around , sniffing coke off the ass of a party girl .  in fact , no one in this film is really seen as a person , rather than just as a symbol or composite of a type who thrived during the era .  bale's character is an especially tough sell : bitter and depressed by flashbacks to his young adulthood , he's not an extremely personal character , and his cliched experiences ( being hounded by the record store guys for buying a record put out by a " poof " ) never help us communicate with him .  nevertheless , rhys meyers and mcgregor have the excuses that their characters are not really characters but rather the results of an era that has left them , and others , bitter , part of which helps the film work , since this is a major piece of eye candy .  at the prime of the movie , they at least look the role of fashionable leaders - slade with his perpetually-changing , androgonys persona , and wild with his topless and unpredictable image , which clash and fuse into an unstable union .  their story - of how slade was so influenced by wild that he adapted it into a similar who-cares attitude crossed with camp - is engaging , without the personal background .  the story of stuart , though , is a tougher sell because he's the everyman , and when you can't totally identify with the everyman , your story's in slight trouble .  as a cultural rock piece , " velvet goldmine " is rather good , but it is merely good .  it never totally takes off , although it has moments where it absolutely flies , but then comes back down .  it's really nothing more than a bunch of really great moments , surrounded by material that could really be much better .  the beginning is captivating but slow , the middle is fantastic , and the ending is not only shallow but worse than that , it drags ( the final half hour not only does it not bring the story to any real conclusion , it could probably stop at any point ) .  and did anyone really figure out what the mystery is that arthur unearths ?  it almost seems like there was no point in the entire investigation other than to unearth the past , which is commendable but not totally so .  still , it does what the oliver stone pic " the doors " didn't do right , becoming very insightful to what happened , using the visual style to hit most of the right notes of contrast between what made the era so great to those who lived during it and why after living through such an era that everything else seems half-assed ( i suppose the message is : " live life , but after you've lived it , what else is the point when you'll be forced to live with regretful memories ? " ) .  the really superb achievement of this film is that during its flashbacks , it successfully creates for the audience what it must have felt like to be in that era , but with the added perk of knowing the result of all that goes down . 
neg@ the sequel to the fugitive ( 1993 ) , u . s marshals is an average thriller using it's association with the fugitive just so it can make a few extra bucks .  tommy lee jones returns to his role as chief deputy samuel gerard , the grizzly cop who was after harrison ford in the fugitive .  this time , he's after fugitive mark sheridan ( snipes ) who the police think killed two fbi agents , but of course he's been set up , and when the police plane escort he ( and gerard ) are riding crashes , he makes a run for it , gerard not so hot on his tail .  what follows is about 2 hours of action , brought to us by the director of executive decision ( 1995 ) , another film curiously involving a plane .  when comparing this movie to the fugitive , the prequel is far superior .  but even on it's own , u . s marshals is a pretty lousy movie .  while the original was reasonably intelligent , and had a fugitive to root for , the audience feels strangely distanced from snipes fugitive , mainly because we know so little about him until way into the film's overlong running time .  while the fugitive gave a little time to develop harrison fords character , u . s marshals is straight in there , pulling it's trump card ( the place crash ) almost immediately .  to be honest , i couldn't care less if snipe's character got captured or not .  snipes performance is average , and his character gets surprisingly little screen time ( considering he is the fugitive ) for reasons i'll explain later .  tommy lee jones is as fine as ever , although his role is hardly a challenge .  the sense of deja vu was overwhelming .  i know it's the same role from the fugitive , but there is seemingly no attempt to develop his character from the last film .  there's a few 'nudge nudge' references from the first film , but apart from that , nothing .  nobody even mentions harrison ford in this movie .  downey jnr is ok as fbi agent john royce who's roped into the chase , and sexy french actress irene jacob wanders in and out of the movie as snipes wife .  nobody looks as if their having a good time , and all the performers are on autopilot .  the supporting cast are o . k , but when it comes to performances , u . s marshals falls flat on it's face .  it doesn't fare any better plot-wise , either .  the film starts off with gerard trying to capture snipes , but then veers off into terrorists territory .  as said above , the film is an normal , average terrorist thriller , seen a million times before , but is using the fugitive reputation to make it sound more professional .  if this film wasn't the 'sequel' to the fugitive , this would probably go straight to video , or not even been made at all , because it's so average .  and because of the film's plot changing it's course , snipes is almost forgotten apart , and hardly features in the movie .  stuart baird , the director , is all right , but there's no particular scene that stands out .  it's director is the usual action movie style .  even the plane crash is sorely lacking in tension .  the special effects are nice , especially the plane crash , and there's a good ( if very loud ) soundtrack by veteran composer jerry goldsmith .  but in the end , u . s marshals suffers from an overwhelmingly lack of excitement .  sure , it's loud and dumb , but in the end u . s marshals just ain't fun .  bored performers and a lackluster plot and script , do not make a good action movie .  overall rating= review by david wilcock web space provided by geocities 
pos@  " love is the devil " is a challenging film , munundating its audience with wild imagery and a plot structure that disallows a plot , perhaps in an attempt to get us to know the artist's psyche rather than the artist's lifeline .  watching it , i was enthralled with the look of the film , the way the director shot everything like it was looking through a bizarre , personalized filter .  everything looks like it is not how life looks like but how painter francis bacon , the film's subject , looked at it personally .  but while i was engrossed , i stumbled upon my thoughts halfway through the film , awakened from my trance by some inner distraction , and began to try and follow what's going on .  exactly what was i looking at ?  watching this film , i wasn't sure if it was the most insightful film i had ever seen or the most vacuous .  directed ( and written ) by john maybury , " love is the devil " is stylish masterpiece for the senses .  everything looks originally bizarre and perplexing .  the camera angles are ferociously askew , and the close-ups are uncomfortably too close .  the editing is deft , occasionally cutting away to something bizarre every couple seconds , but other times holding on a shot for so long that you wonder if the audience is not supposed to be voyeurs , or rather , intruders to bacon's world and psyche .  as such , there is no real story .  i've not heard much about francis bacon that i didn't read prior to the film , but what i learned was this : he was a painter in england who reached his peak during the 60s and 70s , drawing hideously bizarre drawings of carnage and the like .  he was one of the first to really come out of the closet , and in interviews , he was notoriously drunk yet incredibly witty .  as played by great shakesperean actor derek jacobi , he's like a foppish and self-absorbed cross between oscar wilde and nero .  he lives life the way he wants to live it , to the disatisfaction of those who have the privelege of being really close to him .  it's as if he were taking delight in the destruction of others and maybe himself ( " champagne for my real friends , and pain for my sham friends , " he says one night at the bar he frequents ) .   " love is the devil " chronicles the latter part of his life .  bacon , well-known in his mid-life , awakens one night when he hears a man tumble through his ceiling window and land on the floor .  he walks in , unafraid of what he finds , and discovers a thief , george dyer ( daniel craig ) .  bacon gives him an offer : if he spends the night with him , he can take anything he wants in the morning .  george agrees to this , and off to bed he goes , but ends up staying with him , for whatever reason .  the film shows their lives together , at least in reference to one another .  while creating bacon's world of friends ( like " high art , " this film minors in showing a certain group of people who radiate a connection that is not shown but is understood ) , the film shows the relationship of bacon and george as it remains rather stagnant .  bacon is haughty and bizarre ; george is simple and doesn't understand bacon in the least , especially not his paintings .  while watching this , that's basically all i thought was there .  the film has a hypnotic feel , free of any restraints of form , and is shot so uniquely that i felt my attention was almost entirely on the way this film was made rather than what it is about .  once the film is over , it's easier to piece it together .  i kept on thinking about this film , wondering what the point to all of it was .  someone doesn't merely make a film of all style and no substance at all , and if they do , they do it by accident , but still allow some substance to creep in .  thinking about it , i remembered how the two fed off of eachother .  i thought about how bacon was a masochist , in love with cruelty ( in one scene , he watches a boxing match with a orgiastic delight , and lets out a squeal of pleasure when blood from the one boxer's head splashes across his face ; in another scene , he masturbates to the odessa steps sequence of eisenstein's " battleship potemkin " ) , and perhaps he drove george too far in his delight for pain .  he drove him over the edge , and for him that was love , even if it wasn't for george .  i guess that explains the title .  a bit .  that's great and all , but i almost wish the film was devoid of any meaning .  i wish it hadn't reduced itself to making some point about humanity , about how love is the most selfish thing in the world ( and it is , if you look at it a certain way ) .  or maybe if it had avoided any meaning about humanity and merely drove itself into being the one film that was truly inside one man's twisted pysche .  it's almost always best to obtain insights from looking at one man's uniqueness than it is forcing universality down an audience's throat .  that way you don't reduce your film to something it's just not .  i can't say i totally enjoyed " love is the devil , " though .  despite all of the things i respect about this movie , it's still rather uncomfortable to sit through .  even at a normally trite length of ninety minutes , the film still seems like an arduous task to sit through , especially after an exhausting first hour .  though hypnotic , it still almost seems gimmicky and even redundant at times , as if it were taking advantage of one man's truly bizarre nature but not doing anything deeper with it .  as such , i respect the way the film looks .  it's beautiful and painstakingly crafted so that , along with " what dreams may come " and " dark city , " it's the year's most visually stunning film .  in fact , if a better script had been forged , i'd almost compare it in visual power to a peter greenaway film , complete with similar haunting images that stick in the mind forever .  and with a dymanite performance by derek jacobi , it has the comic and distanced tone that it needs .  i just wish it had been more than mostly style and just a hair bit of substance .  then i would have had something to hold me over even now . 
neg@  " some houses are born bad , " goes the haunting's tag line , to which i must add , " some movies , too . "  nothing short of hiring a new cast , a more literate screenwriter , and a new director could have saved this tragically misguided adaptation of jackson's meritorious novel .  the haunting is late entry summer dreck too slick to be creepy , and its seemingly endless stream of digital trickery and spooky ooky sound effects don't frighten so much as numb the audience into submission-the film is like a rube goldberg contraption rigged to shout " boo . "  fragile nell ( taylor ) , bisexual theo ( zeta-jones ) , and smiley luke ( wilson ) are three insomniacs who gather at the reputedly possessed hill house for an extended study on sleep disorders , hosted by professor marrow ( neeson ) .  marrow's secretly gathering data on their respective paranoid responses to his recount of hill house's bleak history .  he's not prepared for the very real apparitions that terrorize the crew , nell especially , who has some ancestral connection to the manor's previous inhabitants .  taylor is thoroughly insufferable in her first big-budget lead .  for starters , her consistently dour expression sucks the life out of even the early scenes , when we're introduced to the mansion and all its fun-house trappings .  her character is supposed to be depressed , having tended to an unloving mother for too many years , but taylor plays nell as supernaturally lame , alternately grouchy , mopey , wiggy and pathetic , and i kept wondering why the other characters didn't just ditch this bitch .  as for the obscenely photogenic zeta-jones , she breezes through her scenes with a wink and a smile and takes the scenery with her .  unfortunately , she's saddled with some of the most unlikely dialogue the screenplay has to offer .  theo's assessment of the house ?   " i love it !  sort of charles foster kane meets the munsters . "  who on earth would say that in place of " citizen kane meets the munsters " ?   ( furthermore , would you gladly spend a single night in a house befitting that description ? )  both actresses fare better than neeson , who looks embarrassed to be a part of this ensemble ( and for good reason ) , and his character is the most bland .  as luke puts it , dr . marrow pulls the old " academic bait and switch " on his subjects , but he breaks down and confesses to this the second he's accused .  later , he risks his life by climbing a crumbling stairwell to save nell ( it's amusing to hear neeson shout " nell " repeatedly , given his starring role in the 1994 jodie foster vehicle of the same name ) .  why was this nice , helpful , and redemptive researcher so absent of ethics at the start ?  the haunting was well designed by eugenio zanetti .  his sets are obsessively detailed , and even before the cgi kicks in , they seem alive , never quite still .  i do have one beef with this aspect of the production : the real life mansion used in exterior shots , nottinghamshire's harlaxton manor , is so vast that one has trouble believing that nell and company , no matter how much running away they do from ghosts and goblins , always finish up in locations that were established in act one , as if all the action has been confined to one wing of hill house .  eighty million dollars was spent on the haunting , and despite a powerhouse box office debut , i doubt it will recoup its costs ( including marketing ) domestically .  thank jan de bont for that : proving for the third time that speed was a fluke , in that it was actually enjoyable , de bont has served up another ride , sans thrill .  his images , well-lit though they are , have an unmistakable been there-done that quality ; in fact , whole sequences , not to mention the cloaked , airy ghoul who owns the climax , feel lifted from a much smarter and infinitely more enjoyable spectacle from three summers back , peter jackson's the frighteners .  i don't mean to suggest de bont is a plagiarist , i mean to suggest that he's a hack , having found no new ways to give us chills . 
pos@ to me , nicolas cage sounds like an ideal choice for the lead role in a martin scorsese film .  despite the rantings that sean penn so rudely expressed , the actor remains a gifted and versatile screen presence .  ever since the big success of the action-thriller `face/off' in 1997 , the hollywood road has been a rocky one for mr . cage .  the perpetually awful assassination thriller `snake eyes' was one of 1998's worst films .  `8mm' was a disappointing lost cause .  but who better than scorsese to match cage's wit and intensity , which he does in miraculous fashion with `bringing out the dead' .  cage delivers one of his finest performances as frank pierce , a new york city emergency paramedic who is running on fumes from day-to-day .  after five years of the stress-inducing job , frank basically just staggers onward , relying on heavy doses of caffeine and booze until his shift finally ends .  he also begins seeing the ghosts of past patients who died under his care , namely a young girl named rose , who stares back at him with pale features at every street corner in new york .  frank desperately wants to be fired , but his boss needs him to scour the city and help those in need ( `i'll fire you tomorrow . . . ' he promises ) .  frank is accompanied by a fresh face every night in the ambulance .  the first is larry ( john goodman ) , who always has food on the brain .  the second is marcus ( ving rhames ) , a deeply religious black man who incorporates the power of jesus into a regular rescue operation .  and finally , tom ( tom sizemore ) is a deranged sociopath hungry for blood .  i found it unique how scorsese used each of these characters for a single shift with frank , but they never figured into the actual plot .  each is merely a colorful presence to help develop frank's character , because `bringing out the dead' is predominantly a study of his mind and detailed personality .  the one character alongside frank that truly comes into play is mary ( patricia arquette ) , the daughter of a newly admitted patient who suffered from a severe heart attack .  arquette , who recently received the wounds of christ in `stigmata' , performs well around real-life husband cage .  it's unfortunate that , after such intriguing character trials and tribulations , the relationship between frank and mary slips during a mishandled , ineffective finale .  the movie belongs to the one-two punch of cage and scorsese , who were born to collaborate their efforts in an arrangement similar to `bringing out the dead' .  although it certainly lacks the grit and hard-edge of something like `goodfellas' , scorsese manages to hit a nerve with his latest picture .  the incredible camera-work and photography represent stunning flashes of brilliance in an otherwise unspectacular conglomeration .  fans will be pleased to find the director has returned to his abrasive , darkly humorous roots after somewhat of a departure with 1997's `kundun' .  does `bringing out the dead' rival scorsese's finest work ?  only occasionally .  some of the film feels surprisingly limp , but there is enough energy in it's interesting material and breathtaking visual appearance to suffice .  those expecting a grisly , risqu ? product may be somewhat disheartened at the fairly straight-arrow approach - but it's still a solid , admirable effort .  `bringing out the dead' was written by the acclaimed paul schrader , who collaborated with scorsese on such classics as `taxi driver' and `raging bull' .  schrader's script is full of moments - wonderful , sharply defined moments - that are sorted throughout the remainder of his meandering screenplay .  the exceptional aspects of the film are it's astounding technical credits and the amazing cast .  goodman and sizemore are both electric ( well , mainly sizemore ) , but it's the phenomenal ving rhames who deserves a second look .  watch the actor's deeply inspired dedication as he resurrects a gothic band member , and you'll understand why he won a golden globe .  `bringing out the dead' is raw and electrifying often enough to mask it's certain flaws .  scorsese - and cage , for that matter - have done better , but their intentions are certainly admirable . 
neg@ synopsis : wealthy cuban landowner luis ( banderas ) gets more than he bargained for when he sends away for an american bride .  not only does his new wife turn out to be the beautiful julia ( jolie ) , she also harbours a secret past of dubious merit .  soon , julia has absconded with both luis' fortune and his heart , and as he pursues his wife through the cuban underworld , luis begins to realise that , for him , there is no turning back .  review : given the absurdism of its would-be plot , it's unlikely that " original sin " could have been turned into a reputable piece of filmmaking , regardless of writer , director or stars .  this is , at its heart , b-movie junk : a lurid melodrama which appeals to neither the brain nor the heart but to the nether regions .  that said , " original sin " could at least have become enjoyable junk had the filmmakers embraced its trashiness and indulged in it .  instead , cristofer seems to have mistaken this for a serious production , and directs it as such .  the result is a vapid , uninteresting morass of obvious crosses and double crosses , as likely to incite a yawn as a thrill .  consider the initial sex scene between banderas and jolie : brightly-lit and mostly filmed from above , it looks like an excerpt from an amateur soft porn show .  cristofer doesn't even manage to capture the allure of cuba ; instead of portraying his setting as a steamy , sensuous island paradise , it appears bland and lifeless .  at least banderas and jolie manage to inspire some interest ; there are hints at times that they want to have more fun with the script , but aren't being given the chance .  the same cannot be said of jane , whose billy is nebbish and transparent .  also unwise is the jolie framing sequence , which practically gives away the film's denouement . 
pos@ david cronenberg presents us with another strange tale crawling out of his impressively twisted head .  it is one of many science fiction films , released during the last year of this millenium , that tackles issues that will play an important role in our future .  the story unfolds in a near future , where the line between reality and virtual reality blurs .  the world of the future is an unfriendly place , where the scared inhabitants are " hiding " in virtual reality fantasy games to escape the uncertainty of the real world .  allegra geller ( jennifer jason leigh ) , the leading game designer in the world , is testing her new virtual reality game , existenz with a focus group .  as they begin , she is attacked by a fanatic assassin employing a bizarre organic gun .  she flees with a young marketing trainee , ted pikul ( jude law ) , who is suddenly assigned as her bodyguard .  unfortunately , her pod , an organic gaming device that contains the only copy of the existenz game program , is damaged .  to inspect it , she talks ted into accepting a gameport in his own body so he can play the game with her .  the events leading up to this , and the resulting game lead the pair on a strange adventure in a world where individuality doesn't exist , as the " players " are forced to perform as characters in an unknown plot .  here the reality and their actions are impossible to determine from either their own or the game's perspective .  i don't intend to reveal more of the film's premise , which is structured as a computer game , with " tasks " that the characters must complete to win the game .  released after " the matrix " and " dark city " , " existenz " has some similarities and parallels that connect it to these films .  however , " existenz " is moving in a different direction , with a premise of its own .  a combination of dazzling special effects , brilliantly coordinated action sequences and an intelligent and sophisticated plot , made " the matrix " a rare and entertaining science fiction experience , with some dark and frightening ideas hidden under its sparkling facade .   " existenz " has a completely different atmosphere , resembling " dark city " , which is darker , more serious and less entertaining .   " existenz " has the opportunities and potential , but the enormous possibilities are never quite explored .  after the engaging beginning , it starts to falter .  while i was watching the film , many left the theatre during the first hour .  and indeed , " existenz " seemed as a complete failure : the actors seemed unreal , the plot and dialogue silly , unfinished relationships and unexplained events followed one after another .  but the last fifteen minutes lifted the film on a complete different level , explaining all past events , the silly dialogue and the unreal performances within a few scenes .  and jet the film fails on several issues .  probably the best written character in the story is a game designer , who would rather spend the rest of her life in a virtual world , than face real life .  this is a great possibility to create a magnificent character , and jennifer jason leigh stretches cronenberg's script to the limits , but fails because the advantages of virtual reality in comparison to the real world are never shown .  existenz is not a world of which you might dream about in your fantasies .  it is not a world worth sacrificing your life for .  it's a cold , dark place where the " players " are forced to interrelate with unreal characters , eat mutated creatures and even murder against their own will .  it doesn't look like a place worth even thinking about .  david cronenberg has been the creator of " the fly " , " videodrome " and " the dead zone " , so it's not so hard to guess that " existenz " is a violent and gory film .  besides the regular murders of innocent people , the audiences can enjoy an autopsy of a two-headed mutated amfibium .  scenes like that have become a trademark for cronenberg and it seems that he can't make a film without flowing blood and foul creatures .  the way i see it , this is the film's crucial failure .  it is impossible for cronenbergto create a beautiful world where time , space and problems of our everyday life do not exist ; a place of blooming blossoms , green forests and clear waters ; a place really worth sacrificing your life for .  because of its lack of three dimensionality , the film looses most of its possibilities , but stays afloat because of some interesting scenes , amusing performances ( especially by willem dafoe ) and one interesting and important thought , depicted in many different ways throughout the movie .  during the film , the audience is as confused as the characters : detached from their everyday existence and no longer able to see the difference between the real world and the alternative reality that they have created .   " the matrix " , despite of its many dark and disturbing thoughts , ends with a light at the end of the tunnel .   " existenz " does not .  it is a one time experience , ending in blood , gore and madness - a rather frightening forecast for tomorrow . 
neg@ play it to the bone , the newest addition to ron shelton's sports - themed repertoire fails in numerous ways .  like most of shelton's other great films ( bull durham , white men can't jump ) , this dud unsuccessfully attempts to use athleticism as a method of connecting characters and creating interesting subplots .  shelton's films are not considered sports films , but they do heavily revolve around a specific game to tell a story .  shelton has been so good in the past at using sports to analyze the structure of society that from his collection of films we are given an examination of different classes and races living in various different regions .  play it to the bone is unsuccessful because not only is the boxing theme dull , but the side story of the two guys and a girl travelling across the country is even worse .  the film has no social message like its predecessors .  the relationship between the friends , two failed boxers who must face off against each other in the ring for 50 thousand dollars , is very confusing for a number of reasons .  the whole film , since it is primarily a " buddy picture , " depends on the strength of the friendship the two characters have for each other .  unfortunately , it is a very weak bond for the reasons listed below .  1 ) we never see how cesar ( antonio banderas ) and vince ( woody harrelson ) meet .  the two are so different from each other , that a scene of how this odd friendship developed should have been mandatory .  2 ) vince and cesar argue every moment possible on their trip to las vegas .  there is not one convincing moment dedicated to seeing the characters laugh together or actually agree on something .  3 ) the third character on the trip , grace ( lolita davidovich ) stands in the way .  she is in nearly every scene with them , making it impossible to understand the difficulty the two male characters are going to have when they fight each other .  4 ) there are two many interfering , irrelevant side stories .  vince is convinced that he sees jesus on a regular basis , cesar yells at the sky in spanish when he is angry , and grace tries to sell her inventions to hotel owner robert wagner .  these boring tales only hurt the central plot .  5 ) when it comes to time for the two men to fight , they don't even hesitate to pound each other .  wasn't the whole point of the road trip to show that these two are friends who could never hurt each other ?  by the time the road trip part of the movie is over with , the film wants to be over .  shelton , on the other hand , continues to tell his story .  forty five painful minutes remain .  the boxing scene between cesar and vince starts out very powerful and interestingly different from other boxing movies .  however , the fight goes on for way too long and becomes very repetitive and predictable after awhile , kind of like the whole film . 
pos@ at first glance , it appears that the home alone movies are brainless slapstick intended for those with minds of 8-year olds .  that's true of home alone 2 and i'd bet money that it's true of home alone 3 ( opening soon ) .  but home alone actually has a lot going for it , and the cartoon slapstick doesn't get in the way .  the mcalisters , all 15 of them , are going to france for the holidays .  four adults and eleven kids are spending the night together before heading to the airport en masse .  the littlest kid , kevin , is the victim of the older kids' cruelty .  kevin's patience runs out when he learns that his plain-cheese pizza has already been eaten , and he's going to have to starve .  he attacks his big bully brother buzz , who had been teasing him .  the fight disrupts the already-chaotic dinner , spilling milk and soft drinks all over the table , a few cousins , and an uncle .  the knee-jerk reaction is for everyone to blame kevin .  nobody came to his rescue when he was being teased , but they all point their fingers when he fights back .  the ultimate punishment comes from mom ( catherine o'hara ) who sends him up to the spare bedroom in the attic for the night .  on his way up the stairs , he tells her that " families suck " and that he hopes never to see any of his family again .  that night the power goes out , knocking out the alarm clocks , so the mcalisters wake up in a big hurry to get to the airport .  in a surprisingly plausible setup , kevin is mistakenly accounted for , and the family heads off without him .  it's interesting that , in a subtle way , his parents never noticed him missing because of their deliberate desire to separate themselves from their children .  first they delegate the headcount to an older sibling , and second , they put all the kids in coach while they fly first class .  they're two-thirds of the way across the atlantic before they realize they are missing a child .  meanwhile , kevin believes that somehow his wish has come true .  he's finally rid of his family !  life is a dream come true .  he can jump on the beds , watch r-rated movies , eat gobs of ice cream and potato chips , and dig through his big brother's secret box .  slowly , the novelty wears off and he settles into the mundane .  he grooms himself , he does the laundry , he goes shopping ( " i bought some milk , eggs , and fabric softener " ) .  he also starts to miss his family , not just for their company , but for the security they bring .  the furnace in the basement is a scary monster , the old man next door is a snow-shovel murderer , and two crooks are trying to break into his house .  macaulay culkin is cute but he isn't much of an actor .  still , we can see that kevin's character grows , thanks to some good direction and editing .  for example , acting has little to do with the emotional impact of the scene where kevin searches out a seasonal santa at night , just as " santa " is getting in his car .  kevin asks the man to pass on his request - he wants his family back - to the real santa .  he learned how to deal with the furnace .  you turn on the lights and it's not so scary anymore .  he goes to a church one evening and there he sees the snow-shovel murderer , who actually turns out to be a nice man .  they talk about their fears and kevin learns that age alone does not make you less afraid .  finally , in the last 20 minutes , kevin confronts his last fear - the bandits , head on ( literally ) .  this last act is full of violent comedic slapstick , and after the movie's genuine dramatic setup , it is dessert .  it's a lot of fun , and it doesn't overwhelm the rest of the movie .  on the whole , home alone is a great holiday movie .  john williams' original score has the sound and feel of holiday music without the disadvantage of being overplayed at the malls , and the christmas setting can put you in the mood for those family gatherings .  but it does have its flaws .  the smallest problem is that culkin doesn't act very well .  as i said before , he is cute , but repeated viewings reveal more about how columbus covered himself than about culkin's insight into his character .  the biggest problem is that during the cartoony coda , the villains threaten kevin's life about five times .  instead of " i'm gonna get that kid " they say " i'm gonna kill that kid . "  some might argue that the tone is the same , but i strongly disagree .  mixing comedy with specific and viable threats of murder is a sociopathic faux-pas .  i'll probably never see home alone 3 , and i wish i had skipped home alone 2 , but i do enjoy home alone almost every year .  don't let your impressions of the others detract from the original , which has much more to offer than cartoon slapstick . 
neg@ 200 cigarettes takes place on new year's eve 1981 .  monica , played by martha plimpton is having a huge new year's party .  everyone in town is trying to get there , but some are caught up in other things .  this is the basic plot of 200 cigarettes .  as we meet the characters headed towards the party , we are sent into many subplots which are unoriginal , and not interesting at all .  this disappointed me greatly .  the film should have been more about the party than the people trying to get there in my opinion .  lucy , played by courtney love , is with kevin , played by paul rudd .  the two are in a relationship that is more of a friendship , but starts to blossom into something more than that .  this subplot is extremely boring and dull , and i am getting quite sick of plots like that .  janeane garofalo is involved in another subplot , dealing with kevin .  she plays ellie , an ex-girlfriend of kevin's .  this subplot is completely a waste of garofalo's talent .  there was no point to it at all , and it was hardly even in the movie .  when lucy runs into a bartender , played by ben affleck , another subplot is formed .  the bartender is invited by lucy to come to monica's party .  at the bar , he runs into two more girls .  the girls are played by angela featherstone and nicole parker , but unfortunately , due to the terrible acting of both of them , i don't even remember their characters names .  ben affleck is a good actor , but his character doesn't go anywhere so he doesn't have much screen time to give a good performance .  featherstone and parker are horrible in their roles , and they are part of the reason the film is so bad .  christina ricci plays val , and gaby hoffman plays stephie .  the two girls are trying to get to the party but are extremely lost .  they meet some guys and end up going around with them all night .  this subplot was alright , but it was quite annoying with stephie's accent .  hoffman did an okay job of acting , but ricci did good .  she was underused , considering she is such a wonderful actress .  another subplot in the film is the relationship between cindy , played by goldie hawn's daughter , and jack , played by jay mohr .  jack is an actor who doesn't care about the girls he goes out with , he just likes dates for one night , and the next day he doesn't .  kate hudson is a huge klutz .  she gets herself into very funny situations , that are the funniest parts in the entire movie .  they are probably the only funny parts in the entire movie as well .  this subplot could have been used more , mainly due to hudson's performance .  mohr wasn't good , but he wasn't bad .  he was just alright , which i didn't find acceptable .  there is not much to say about the performances in the film .  none of the characters are developed or shown enough to really tell if the acting is good or not .  the only performances that i can judge are christina ricci's as always good performance , kate hudson's funny role , courtney love's mediocre performance , and paul rudd's annoying and overused performance .  i was hoping for a little more out of jaw mohr , ben affleck , casey affleck , gaby hoffman , dave chapelle , and especially out of janeane garofalo .  the two strongest things in the film were the great soundtrack and the original costumes .  martha plimpton and christina ricci had very different and original outfits which made me feel like i was in the year 1981 .  the soundtrack is full of 1980's tunes , ranging from " i want candy " to " tainted love . "  the songs in the movie also helped create the feel that you were back in the 1980s .  during the film , i often found myself asking the questions , " is there a reason to this ?  is there any moral story ?  is there a point ?  are any of the events going on in the film necessary ?  do i care what lucy and kevin are going through ? "  the movie is extremely boring , and by the time they reached eleven-o-clock , one hour before midnight , i could not wait for the movie to be over .  the plot is okay , but the subplots make it terrible .  maybe if the film was about the party , not about the people at the party , it could have been a lot better .  the bottom line : just like a slasher movie , this ? 80s comedy is just one too many . 
pos@ a wonderful little movie that is really interested in its characters and in its theme .  the scene of " second best " is laid in wales .  james ( chris cleary miles ) is a 10-year-old boy who must live in a home because his father ( keith allen ) is in prison and his mother committed suicide .  james is a mentally unbalanced child .  he can't forget what happened in the past , and he dreams of living a happy life with his beloved father .  in the home he feels sadly and lonely .  one day , a social worker ( alan cumming ) tells him of a person who wants to adopt him .  this person is graham holt ( william hurt ) .  graham manages a post office and shop in a village .  he is a single and hasn't any real friends .  his mother is dead , and his father is ill and will die .  graham feels that he has been a disappointment to his parents .  there has never been real love between his parents and him .  graham's monotonous life would get a new sense if he could adopt james .  but graham has not only to convince the institutions , but must also win the love of james .  james and graham have to open theirselves .  they must get to know each other and learn to understand and trust the other person .  james and graham aid each other to cope with their problems .  but will their relationship really have a future ?   " second best " is based on a novel by david cook who also wrote the screenplay .  the film was directed by chris menges who had made his directing debut with the very good anti-apartheid drama " a world apart " ( 1987/88 ) .  and maybe , " second best " is even a greater picture .  this precise , richly detailed , sensitively and convincingly directed study about a special adoption treats its theme with great seriousness .  the breathtakingly intense film shows the necessity of human contact and communication .  william hurt delivers an outstanding performance as graham holt .  and chris cleary miles is remarkably convincing in the role of the boy .  the supporting cast is also fine ( especially jane horrocks as debbie , a social worker who is charged to examine graham's living circumstances ) .   " second best " is an underestimated masterpiece .  it's a pity that films like this one are made so seldom .  i eagerly await menges' next directorial work , " the lost son " , which will star daniel auteuil . 
neg@ i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder .  i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house .  so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie .  but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place .  the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house .  when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ?  gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids .  actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever .  when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . "  obviously .  all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago .  so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids .  that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . "  decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table .  so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character .  and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q .  test went straight off the chart ! " )  and attracts electrical power .  this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class .  goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest .  but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing .  i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) .  that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself .  but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization .  none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance .  i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened .  from noraruth!aol . com  mon jun 10 15 : 04 : 03 edt 1996 article : 3654 of rec . arts . movies . reviews  path : nntphub . cb . att . com ! not-for-mail  from : noraruth!aol . com   ( andrew hicks ) newsgroups : rec . arts . movies . reviews , rec . arts . sf . reviews  subject : review : powder ( 1995 ) followup-to : rec . arts . movies . current-films , rec . arts . sf . movies  date : 10 jun 1996 18 : 16 : 03 gmt organization : university of missouri - columbia lines : 70 sender : ecl!mtcts1 . att . com   ( evelyn c . leeper ) approved : ecl!mtcts1 . att . com  message-id : " > reply-to : noraruth!aol . com   ( andrew hicks ) nntp-posting-host : mtcts2 . mt . lucent . com  summary : r . a . m . r .  #05425 keywords : author=hicks originator : ecl!mtcts2 xref : nntphub . cb . att . com  rec . arts . movies . reviews : 3654  rec . arts . sf . reviews : 710  status : ro  powder a film review by andrew hicks copyright 1996 andrew hicks / fatboy productions  i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder .  i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house .  so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie .  but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place .  the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house .  when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ?  gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids .  actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever .  when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . "  obviously .  all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago .  so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids .  that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . "  decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table .  so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character .  and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q .  test went straight off the chart ! " )  and attracts electrical power .  this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class .  goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest .  but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing .  i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) .  that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself .  but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization .  none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance .  i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened . 
pos@ summary five liberal iowa graduate students share a house and carry on a tradition of a large sunday dinner .  for a year now they have been inviting a guest for dinner and discussion .  on this occasion one of the roommates , pete ( ron eldard ) , brings home a stranger who picked him up when his car broke down .  the stranger is zack ( bill paxton ) who appears like a decent enough good samaritan .  nothing could be further from the truth .  after some dinner conversation it appears that zack is , among other things , a racist " you know my grandfather once said that if he knew you coloreds were going to be so much trouble we'd have picked the damn cotton ourselves " , and an anti-semite .  an argument escalates at the dinner table and leads to violence .  after zack assaults marc ( jonathan penner ) and pete , zack is killed .  the roommates are at odds with what to do .  marc , pete and paulie ( annabeth gish ) immediately wish to call the police .  luke ( courtney b . vance ) and jude ( cameron diaz ) suggest something different .  after more discussion they agree to dispose of the body and cover it up .  they do not want to be sent to jail for what they feel was a justifiable homicide .  when it is done the roommates realize that it was easier than they thought .  so easy in fact that they decide that every sunday their dinner guest would be someone who opposes of their views .  if they all agree that the guest deserves to die , they will poison them and bury them in the back yard .  the back yard fills up rather quickly , its' victims including ( among others ) a right to life extremist , an anti-environmentalist and a homophobe .  by the time the roommates get to their tenth victim they begin to question their methods .  are they giving the guests a chance ?  are they even giving them good food anymore ?  this film is what i like to call a " hidden treasure " .  this film is such a pleasant surprise .  a well written , devilish satire that is funny , sexy and original .  this film should be a hit , but i guess the fact that it apparently had no marketing wouldn't give it much of a chance .  i had never heard of it until i saw a copy at my video store .  stacy title does a wonderful job directing .  she somehow finds the time to give all of the characters enough screen time to develop a distinct personality .  >from the five members of the house to other key characters including sheriff stanley ( nora dunn ) , the local law closing in on the truth , and the dream dinner guest , norman arbuthnot ( ron perlman ) , a rush limbaugh clone who should be the roommates easiest kill .  perlman gives the films' best performance .  he finds the right note as the right wing big mouth who simultaneously offends and gains followers , and may just inadvertently talk his way out of death .  the other actors are convincing as well , as all of the roommates deal with their murderous ways .  some of the characters appear to be heading down the road towards insanity , while others grieve their decisions .  when friends ask me to recommend a movie , this is usually the first one i think of .  i am not saying that this is my favorite movie ( although it is in my top ten ) , but because the film was such a wonderful surprise , i have a fondness for it .  i also try to recommend films like this : ones that have not been seen by many people , but should . 
neg@ synopsis : the president of a company wants to test his self-appointed successor , who's psychotic , and thinks it's a great idea to spend a week with him and their wives in an isolated cabin a hundred miles from civilization with no dependable transportation or means of communication after a heavy snowfall .  comments : tracks of a killer had a couple of strikes against it before i even began watching it .  strike one was the fact that someone had scrawled the word garbage on the videotape's sticker in black marker ( not typically a good sign when you rent a film ) .  strike two came while the previews played .  did you ever get a sinking premonition about a movie's quality ( or lack thereof ) while watching the trailers that come before it ?  well , the cheesy films being advertised before tracks of a killer were films that no one has ever heard of starring people no one knows , and they all looked bad ( definately not a good sign ) .  tracks of a killer itself completed the strikeout .  about the only positive thing this film had going for it was the fact that it sports some nice scenery .  to be fair , the first half-hour or so promises at least a watchable thriller .  wolf larson , who bears more than a passing resemblance to hugh grant , adequately plays the underling obviously set up as the killer of the film's title .  james brolin and kelly lebrock seem equally adequate as the loving couple larson will later threaten .  brolin's character , for some inexplicable reason , thinks its a great idea to spend some time in a cabin , practically isolated , with lebrock and larson , whom he's decided to test for the week before giving him full control of his company .  by the time the characters arrive at the cabin , this film begins to become tedious .  apparently , brolin's successor's test involves chopping wood for the fireplace and skiing , which don't seem like attributes necessary to run a business in the city .  but , then again , what do i know about business ?  i do think , though , that they should have invested in some better furniture for the cabin ; its beds and closets have a habit of just breaking at the slightest touch .  larson's character accidently kills his own wife rather than the couple he wants to kill .  this leaves the movie with an hour to go and only three characters , which really isn't enough to sustain it .  the film's writer must have taken a cue from stephen king , as scenes from tracks of a killer seem lifted out of misery and gerald's game .  larson and lebrock fight and torture each other ( the tables get turned a couple of times ) while brolin tramps around in the snow looking for help .  some old guy's around too , just so the killer can add to his body count without killing the couple , who everyone knows will be alive at the end of the film .  the old guy , however , miraculously survives his first death and appears later to be killed again by the killer in a scene so ludicrous it's worthy of a chuckle or two .  outside of that chuckle , unfortunately , tracks of a killer will just bore you as the obvious plot is drawn out ad infinitum and the actors , for some reason , become increasing obnoxious .  if you're in a video store and thinking about renting this turkey , don't .  make tracks to a far superior suspense film , like misery . 
pos@ sam ( matthew broderick ) is an astronomer in a small american town and engaged to teacher linda ( kelly preston ) .  he is head over heels in love and lindas sudden departure to new york city to live with her new lover anton ( tch ? ky karyo ) comes as a complete surprise to him .  but as we all know love is blind and so sam leaves for new york as well to win her back .  he moves into an abandoned house across the street from anton's apartment and installs a camera obscura to watch them .  suddenly anton's ex maggie shows up , but she does not want her former lover back .  on the contrary , all she wants to do is vaporize him .  she may say that she doesn't want to kill him , but the possibility doesn't bother her too much either .  after all , people die every day .  in spite of their different motives the two team up and fall for each other as things move on .  the story sounds like something we all have seen a million times .  but we haven't .  griffin dunne brings us the most charming comedy since " while you where sleeping " .  the camera obscura adds a " special something " to the movie and makes it an exceptional romantic comedy .  everything about the movie is perfect , from set design to casting .  the dialogues are inspired and the touches of black humor add a certain bite .  meg ryan , known from " when harry met sally " or " sleepless in seattle " , surprises in a role that may finally help her get rid of her sweet little girl image .  she impresses the viewer as a maneating biker girl .  even more surprising is the fact that the viewer believes her , much more so than in last years " courage under fire " where she played a gulf war pilot .  matthew broderick is the goodnatured and somewhat naive sam who has trouble accepting reality .  the viewer can tell that he doesn't only watch the stars but also tries to reach out for them .  he has trouble keeping in touch with reality .  after all , who would leave everything behind to chase a lost love ?  his naivet ? that we don't question for a minute throughout the movie clashes with maggies exaggerated wish for revenge .  she would do anything to harm anton .  she doesn't hesitate to use sam for her plan and makes him understand right from the beginning that nothing will happen between the two of them .  that makes the scenes when they innocently share a bed , have potatoe chips and watch the action across the street like a saturday night show on tv even funnier .  tch ? ky karyo is perfect as anton .  he is , well , repulsive .  that's all there is to say about him .  you can't really manage to pity him , even after all his mishaps .  he not only took sam's bride away from him , he is also a french chef .  worlds collide , i .  e .  the usa and france .  this can only go wrong .  even if maggies revenge schemes are at times shocking , you just can't sympathize with a man who plays " je t'aime . . . moi  non plus " on his tape deck .  not everyone is captured by the french charme that linda and even maggie fell for .  sam certainly isn't .  too bad for anton .  for him things take a turn to the worse .   " addicted to love " is one of this year's most pleasant surprises . 
neg@ this is an adaptation of h . g . wells' acclaimed novel 'the invisible man' .  the actors are kevin beacon and elizabeth shue .  the director is paul verhoven .  that , plus a quick demonstration of the amazing special effects in the trailer , should be enough to lure us into the theatre .  the problem is to keep us there .  i can't imagine anyone who would like to see this movie a second time .  working on a top secret military project , sebastian caine ( kevin beacon ) -- an eccentric genius , that calls himself " god " , has discovered the secret to invisibility .  the first two faces are completed .  now , it is time for " the next logical step " -- human .  caine volunteers for this risky experiment .  but when he is made invisible , something goes wrong .  while his ex-girlfriend linda ( elisabeth shue ) desperately tries to find something to return him to normal , he learns that invisibility is more of a prison than a superpower .  but that's not the bad thing -- an unexpected side-effect of the drug sends him careening into paranoid megalomania .  he is naturally given a couple of modest superpowers , just enough for him to survive immolation from a flame thrower and an explosion of about a quart of nitroglycerine .  soon every sense of decency is forgotten .  the little intelligence that was left disappears as verhoven looses control and the film turns into an alien-rip-off , where caine is walking like a half finished terminator , spooking , scaring and killing everybody .  though it's based on a novel called 'the invisible man' , the title has been ironically changed to 'hollow man' that sums up the film very nicely .  this is a very silly production .  laughable , actually .  apparently verhoven's imagination doesn't stretch too far .  for him the only worthwhile reason to become invisible is so you can case the girls' locker room undetected .  it is this primitive schoolboy mentality that eventually kills the movie .  being invisible , gives you the opportunity to be who you are , to do what you want without being influenced by society .  in many ways it gives you an illusion of having a life without consequences .  the nature of man and his place in society is what the novel is truly about .  all that , the depth and true horror of the book is gone and only special effects make you remain in your seat .  caine does use his power voyeuristically in hollow man .  but since this is a modernization , in other words a dehumanization , he doesn't stop there .  he becomes a rapist .  and then , of course , a murderer .  you'll start wondering why such actors as beacon and shue found themselves in such film in the first place .  shue's talent is barely seen , josh brolin is underused and the rest of the cast suffer mostly for the lack of talent .  kevin beacon is the only one that performs gracefully .  his face is not seen for the most part of the film , and the only way he exists is as a disembodied voice .  there are times when his presence actually saves the film from being completely embarrassing .  in the end the effects are the only reason to see this film in the first place .  being probably the best technical achievement since " jurassic park " , they are absolutely amazing .  we observe the layers of skin , muscle , tissue , and bone being peeled away as a body is slowly rendered invisible .  we see a beating heart , inflating lungs , and veins pulsing with newly-pumped blood .  there are a couple of inventive shots with smoke , fire , air and water , but are a few scenes like that worth attending a movie for ?  what is truly disturbing is that with a great book , talented actors and a grand budget , this could have been so much more .  pretty much like jan de bont ( " twister " , " haunting " ) , paul verhoven has never made anything extraordinary .  he was responsible for several good films ( " basic instinct " and " starship troopers ) " and some incredibly bad films ( " showgirls " , " total recall " ) , but he has never made anything that was great .  in a way " hollow man " fits perfectly in this collection .  it's not better or worse than verhoven's average film .  he proves once again that he is incapable of handling more complex issues .  and so , instead of depth and chills , verhoven inserts some of his trademarks : stupid dialogue , and lot's of dull action with blood and naked bodies .  he even throws in some of the worst of film clich ? s - the slowly advancing fireball , the villain who comes back from the dead , etc , etc . - and tops the whole thing off with one of the most ridiculous endings of the year ( you'll be screaming " nooooo ! "  and attempt to run towards the exit in slow motion ) .  and all we can ask is why ?  the answer is simple .  though hollywood is a movie producing machine , the business of moviemaking has to be about something more than money .  it has to be about telling stories , not marketing them .  it has to be about transporting us to a different place , to dazzle us with magic and cleverness .  to make us care , to make us think and feel .  verhoven has obviously missed that point and this film is a proof of that .  it's all flesh and bones , but no soul .  a void where its imagination should be . 
pos@ jacques tati's 1953 classic " les vacances de m . hulot " ( also known as " mr . hulot's vacation , " in english ) ought to be the textbook on how to do non ? dialogue comedy in film .  the characters hardly ever speak to each other directly , and the film operates on the paper ? thin premise that monsieur hulot , played by tati himself , is awkward and clumsy and generally manages to annoy the other guests at the beach resort hotel where he is taking a week's vacation .  yet the film had me beside myself laughing more consistently than any in recent memory .  part of the reason the film works so well is the clever setup for the various gags .  slapstick has often been regarded as an unsophisticated and even crude form of comedy , but i think part of the reason for this is that it often seems forced : you can only see movie characters start running after something and then crash face-first into a pole so many times before you start to wonder what all these poles are doing there in the first place or why these people don't watch where they're going .  in " les vacances de m . hulot , " the gags build upon each other and often start out relatively low-key .  in one sequence , for example , hulot is painting the side of his small row boat on the beach when , while his back is turned , the paint can gets caught up in the oncoming waves , washes away , then comes back up on the other side of the boat .  while crossing over to get the can , hulot steps in the boat and unknowingly cracks it .  when he actually takes the boat out into the water , it breaks in half , but the two halves flip up against each other , trapping him inside as the bystanders mistake it for a shark fin and panic on the beach ensues .  tati doesn't waste a single opportunity for humor ; scenes that might have yielded one joke in most comedies are good for at least four or five in this film .  it has been said that comedy relies on frustrating the audience's expectations , and " les vacances de m . hulot " succeeds brilliantly in that area as well .  tati accomplishes this largely through a sort of deadpan understatement .  when hulot goes into a separate room during dinner and starts playing a record at defeaningly loud volume , no fights or shouting matches ensue ; instead , the waiter calmly walks in and shuts off the power in the room , disconnecting the record player and leaving a puzzled hulot sitting in the dark .  tati also uses running gags to this effect , allowing them to keep running far longer than most comedy directors would ; more often than not , we can see them coming and think , " oh , he's not going to do that again , " but , lo and behold , he does .  for example , there is a recurring joke in which hulot's noisy , sputtering car engine wakes everyone in the middle of the night as an exterior shot reveals the hotel's lights coming on one by one .  then this image turns up again in the finale , which i will not give away other than to say that involves a lot more noise in the middle of the night than a car engine could ever produce .  the ending is one of two elements that really make this a four-star film as opposed to merely an above-average , clever comedy .  as much as i was laughing during this film , i was thinking to myself occasionally that tati had to top himself at the end to really make this work as a complete viewing experience ; suffice it to say that he did .  the other important aspect is that the film never seems disdainful of its characters .  it easily could have turned the tables on hulot and had the other guests exact some kind of revenge on him ; alternatively , it could have portrayed the others as humorless curmudgeons .  instead , tati seems to regard his characters with cheerful amusement more than anything else and invites the audience to like them , however strange or irritating they might seem .   " les vacances de m . hulot " is not subtitled , but the dialogue is sparse and for the most part not terribly essential to the flow of events .  anyone with a taste for this kind of absurd humor ought to make this film their next rental from the video store .  note : " les vacances de m . hulot " was not rated by the mpaa .  it would at most receive a pg rating . 
neg@ joe versus the volcano is really one of the worse movies made in very recent memory .  the strangest thing is that you would think nothing would go wrong with it .  it has a solid cast with tom hanks & meg ryan as the lead roles .  but you can never judge a movie by its cast . . .  if there is one good thing about joe vs the volcano , it is that the plot is original .  unfortunately , it is also incredibly stupid .  the movie begins with joe ( tom hanks ) going to work .  this opening sequence is very boring and slow .  it shows joe walking to his office .  but on the way , he has to wait in a long line passing by strange and slightly depressing scenery with obnoxious lighting .  a sequence like this should take 2 minutes .  here , it takes over 5 . . .  it is obvious that joe hates his job .  at his office , one of his co-workers is meg ryan .  oddly enough , she plays 3 different roles in this movie ! !  joe leaves to go to a doctor's appointment .  his doctor informs him that he has a " brain cloud . "  this means that in a few months , he will die .  so what does joe do ?  quit his job , of course ! !  when he arrives home , joe meets an old man named graynamore ( lloyd bridges ) .  graynamore tells joe that in order to get some important mineral for his company from an island , the natives need someone to sacrifice to their volcano to please their fire god .  by a startling coincidence , the boat trip to the island takes a few months .  by the time he reaches the island , he will almost be dead from the " brain cloud " anyway , so joe agrees .  graynamore gives joe a credit card to buy everything he needs to go on this " great adventure " .  joe goes on a date with meg ryan , his co-worker .  the day before the boat trip , joe meets one of graynamore's daughters .  she is also , surprise , meg ryan .  except she looks more hippyish .  they both have dinner and the next day , joe gets driven over to his boat .  the lady that sails the boat is another one of graynamore's daughters .  and , wonder of wonders , she is also played by meg ryan .  as they sail to the island , meg ryan tells joe that the natives of the island have a craving for orange soda .  after some stupid talking scenes , they also deduce that graynamore had his doctor be the one that joe went to .  and that the " brain cloud " thing was made up ! !  they do plently of cheap special effects on the boat voyage .  joe goes fishing and catches a hammerhead shark .  this is a cheap gag that has been pulled off many times .  but , to top it off , the shark is obviously rubber and fake ! !  one night there is a storm .  a cheap-looking lightning bolt strikes the boat and everything is cast overboard .  fortunately , joe and meg ryan manage to find some of the luggage that joe brought to sail .  by pure luck , they get to the island .  since the natives like orange soda , they wear soda cans as attire ! !  stupid or what ?   ; ) before joe leaps in the volcano , he gets fed .  right before he jumps , meg ryan pleads him not to .  when joe decides to , she goes in with him because " she loves him " .  now this is where the movie should end .  but , unfortunately , the " cheesy ending " bug comes in .  the volcano blows the couple out and into the ocean where they land on joe's luggage .  they float to another part of the island as they watch lava pouring out of the volcano towards the villagers .  i give this movie a .  see it only if you're a film buff that enjoys a bad movie every now and then or if you really like tom hanks or meg ryan . . . 
pos@ frequency n . ,  the number of times a specified phenomenon occurs within a specified interval as the number of repetitions of a complete sequence of values of a periodic function per unit variation of an independent variable ? etc  don't worry .  when watching the thriller frequency , you won't have to know what the heck frequency means .  the premise , although it may sound complex , is very basic on the big screen .  a new york cop , john , ( jim caviezel ) finds a radio in his house , which allows him to communicate with his new york firefighter father , frank , ( dennis quaid ) who died thirty years ago .  immediately john warns his father that he will die trying to stop a fire in an abandoned warehouse .  when frank takes his advice and survives the accident he wasn't supposed to , the two eventually realize that by changing that one moment in the past , they have created a whole new future in which a serial killer murders john's mother and nine other women .  it is now up to john and frank to use their special connection and save thirty years ago to make present time a better place .   ( i told you that wasn't confusing ? ) .  overall , i was very pleased with frequency .  it's occasional sappy moments perfectly synchronized with its suspenseful serial killer scenes .  i usually don't buy those cheesy " i love you dad " segments in movies , but this one surprisingly satisfied me .  maybe because the plot is so creative and universal that i believed that this is how most people would act when talking to a dead relative .  frequency's creepy premise left me thinking once the film ended , what if ?  what would i do ?  would i help my own family or save a historical figure from being assasinated ?  or stop some kids from shooting other kids ?  or buy stock from yahoo ! ?   ( a character in the film does the latter with humorous consequences ) .  frequency also reminded me of the fantastic back to the future .  both share that " change the past slightly , and you'll change the future heavily " warning .  the changes between the present and the past , such as different newspaper headlines or people disappearing and reappearing in photographs , are very similar .  both are also wonderful feel-good family films that can attract to a number of generations .  the only difference worth noting is that frequency's final scene doesn't set up a possibility for a lucrative sequel already in the making .  there are some problems with the film though .  first , there is a major flaw in the story towards the end that is somewhat distracting ( email me if you have seen the movie and want to know what i think it is ) .  the plot must have confused even the filmmakers who frequently ( no pun intended ) switch from 1969 to 1999 while telling the story .  another problem is that the supporting cast , including noah emmerich and andre braugher , are underused .  while in the film , which is not enough , the aforementioned actors steal every scene they are in .  frequency was a pleasant surprise for me and the audience i saw it with who cheered at the end .  even if you know what is going to happen or if you think the preview ruined the movie for you , like it almost did for me , check this movie out .  you may be surprised as well . 
neg@ if there's one thing i just can't stand , it's a film that oozes with sentimentality .  here's a note to all film makers : films are more effective when the emotions of the characters speak for themselves .  swelling , saddening music is not a good way to tell us that the people in the film are unhappy , and that the situation is hopeless .  alas , my giant is a film that uses manipulative sentimentality so frequently and with such high intensity that i forgot as i watched it that there are other ways of getting audience members choked up .  what reminded me was that i wasn't choked up , or even the slightest bit moved , for that matter .  my giant is a forced , contrived , and conspicuously un-cute ( i detest the word " cute " but i've chosen to use it because the makers clearly wanted to create a " cute " film here ) .  it takes a premise that might have been interesting ( i liked the preview ) , and bogs it down with endless plot turns and cliches , all of which are intended to get some kind of easy emotional rise from the audience .  maybe it will work for some people .  it didn't work for me .  billy crystal plays sam cayman , an agent who , at the beginning of the film , is in romania .  he's in romania because the kid actor he made famous is doing a film .  the screenplay has him in romania so he can get fired , get in a car accident , and get saved by an enormous individual who stands almost eight feet tall .  his name is max ( gheorghe muresan ) , and sam thinks he'd be a great movie star because of his size .  subplots are as follows : sam has a son and a wife ( kathleen quinlan ) , and he's never around for them , so they move to chicago .  max is in love with a woman named lilianna who moved away from romania twenty years before the film begins .  sam convinces max to go back to america with him so they can make lots of money , and so their various subplots can all be resolved .  sam is broke .  max is dying .  pass the kleenex .  my giant , as a comedy , is only moderately funny .  it has its moments , the best of which features steven seagal making fun of himself .  in one great scene , sam gets his son on the phone to talk to seagal ; of course , his son doesn't believe that he's actually speaking to seagal , and he goes off about how bad of an actor he is ( i would quote the line i like but it would probably lose its effect ) .  crystal is always entertaining , and he has a few good lines here ( some of which are subtle throwaways that many will miss entirely ) ; often , however , he's countered by a slew of jokes that aren't funny , and cause an involuntary rolling of the eyes .  muresan is kind of fun to watch , but he just can't act very well .  quinlan , on the other hand , is a great actress who needs to get a role that shows off her talents .  she was underused last year in both event horizon and breakdown , but at least in those films she had moments in which she could show us her stuff .  here , the best thing she gets to do is fake a romanian accent .  all of these disappointing ingredients create a film that , for much of its running time , is simply mediocre .  as my giant lumbers to its inevitable conclusion , however , director michael lehmann ( who did a great job directing the underrated hudson hawk ) and scriptwriter david seltzer pile on every cliche imaginable , each one intended specifically to pull at our heartstrings .  sam's multiple engagements with his family are all completely hackneyed ( how about a main character who has a healthy relationship with his family ? ) .  later , it turns out the entire story is supposed to be a great big metaphor signifying sam's reunion with his family .  and some people might think that what sam does for max towards the end is a valiant thing , but i had a few morality problems with it ( and i apologize for being vague ) .  it's icky .  it drips with gooey , wannabe human emotions .  my giant could have been a straightforward and funny family film .  more importantly , it could have been moving on a level far deeper than it is .  instead , it's a complicated , overlong , and under-engaging film that elicits too few laughs and strives for superficial tears .  and since it left me feeling completely unmoved , i stand by my position that sentimentality is evil and will ultimately destroy the world . 
pos@ plot : a peculiar french girl grows up lonely with her father and doesn't quite know what she wants out of life .  one day , she falls upon something , and believes that her ticket to happiness may be in helping others .  she starts with the people around her , but when she suddenly falls for her own guy , she can't act strongly enough because of her shy and dreamy nature .  critique : a clever , quirky , original french flick set in a picturesque paris , featuring an endearing lead with a giant imagination , much loneliness and a little bit of love for everyone .  this is a " feel-good " kind of movie , a fairy tale for grown-ups who are bummed out about life .  it doesn't pretend to be deep , it doesn't weigh itself down with long expositions or intricate studies of its characters , it's basically just a " cute movie " in the same vein as chocolat and pay it forward , with some amazing visuals and incredibly nice intentions ( and if chocolat was somehow able to nab an oscar nomination for best picture last year ( a sham on so many different levels ) , you might as well slap this film up for consideration also , since it's quite a bit better and much more original than the former ) .  one thing that this film isn't though , at least according to me , is the best film of the year ( it was bestowed the honor of " best " in at least 3 different film festivals so far this year ) .  it actually managed to stagnate a little bit about halfway through and it just went on for way too long ( it's a little over two hours but it felt even longer ) , with much of the second half of the movie devoted to many different characters , all of whom weren't as interesting as the lead , and a lot of indecisiveness from ms . amelie herself , which got frustrating .  thankfully , this film doesn't bog itself down with too much of that stuff , and actually goes out of its way to invent new ways to shoot scenes , to integrate moments of fantasy into its fabric and to transport the audience inside the imagination of this kind-hearted french girl .  on the whole , it's a lot of fun and it carries a beautiful message of love and support for your fellow man .  the lead , audrey tautou , is perfect for the role , and gives you enough moments of truth to develop her character into someone that you care about by the end of the film .  unfortunately , the rest of the cast isn't as well-developed , and even though most of them are pretty appealing , a couple could've been left out to save time and at least one was left stranded plot-wise , by the film's end ( what happened to the guy in the caf ? who was spying on his ex-girlfriend the whole movie ? ) .  now i haven't seen too many recent french films , i will admit , but if this is the kind of " scene " that they're developing over in " le pays du vin " , i wouldn't mind catching more of their flicks in the future ( crimson rivers was another french film that i saw earlier this year , which i really liked- ironically , that film was directed by mathieu kassovitz , who is the co-star in this film ) .  granted , the english subtitles got a little tough to keep up with at times ( i speak and understand french also , but some of the local colloquialisms went over my head ) , especially since the film's visuals were so intriguing that you just couldn't help but constantly gawk at them , but the general idea , the background music , the nifty french neighborhoods , the very creative way of enveloping the audience into the story-line from the start , were all very easy to appreciate , and i for one was especially glad to have seen this movie during these trying times in the world .  in fact , i'd recommend it to anyone looking for a jolly ol' time at the movie house , with a particular emphasis on folks with a lot of imagination , a little loneliness in their lives and many dreams in their hearts .  and this guy directed alien : resurrection ?  get outta here ! !  note : i especially loved the way that the script detailed and showed the loves/hates of everyone with exact mentions in the film .  it was very original , very well shot and very nostalgic , as many of us were able to relate to the behaviors described .  good stuff !  where's joblo coming from ?  chocolat ( 6/10 ) - crimson rivers ( 8/10 ) - ghost world ( 9/10 ) - like water for chocolate ( 8/10 ) - o brother , where art thou ( 7/10 ) - pay it forward ( 5/10 ) - rushmore ( 9/10 ) - woman on top ( 7/10 ) 
neg@ and now the high-flying hong kong style of filmmaking has made its way down to the classics , and it isn't pretty .  this time out the nod to asia goes by way of france in the excruciating bland and lukewarm production of the musketeer , a version of dumas's the three musketeers .  by bringing in popular asian actor/stunt coordinator xing xing xiong -- whose only prior american attempts at stunt choreography have been the laughable van damme vehicle double team and the dennis rodman cinematic joke simon sez -- our musketeers are thrown into the air to do their fighting .  the end result is a tepid and dull action/adventure rip-off that stinks of indiana jones and bad asian kung fu .  the story is so simple my grandmother could have adapted the screenplay .  d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) is the vengeful son of a slain musketeer .  he travels to paris to join the royal musketeers and find the man that killed his parents .  in paris , he meets the cunning cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) , who is trying to overthrow the king , and richelieu's man-in-black associate febre ( tim roth ) , the killer of his folks .  he finds the musketeers in paris disbanded and drunk , so he rounds up aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steven spiers ) to free the musketeer's wrongfully imprisoned leader treville from the king's prison .  d'artagnan and his new frisky love interest/chambermaid francesca ( mena suvari ) play footsy and coo at each other as the cardinal hunts down the musketeers until finally the queen ( catherine deneuve ) ends up being captured by the menancing febre , forcing the musketeers to regroup , with d'artagnan leading the charge , and save the day .  director peter hyams ( end of days ) obviously wanted to blend eastern and western filmmaking styles , but here it's a disaster .  one problem is that , in reality , most eastern films have taken their lead from western ones .  jet li's high risk is a rip-off of die hard -- not the other way around .  ironically , there is awfully little swordplay or action in the film at all -- maybe ten minutes of swashbuckling spread over five scenes .  most asian action films carry the bulk of their production with 20- to 30-minute action sequences , because they know the scenes have to carry the picture .  the musketeer instead weighs itself down with a predictable and monotonous screenplay by gene quintano ( sudden death ) , horrible acting by stephen rea and tim roth , and the prosaic attempt of justin chambers ( the wedding planner ) to deliver his mousy self as a leader .  chambers' d'artangnan isn't a musketeer -- he's a mouseketeer !  and hyam's use of candles and torches to light the grime and filth of 17th century paris are well-noted , but that's the only standout in an overall flat production . 
pos@ one of the funniest carry on movies and the third with a medical setting .  the main story is about dr . james nookey ( jim dale ) who is disliked by his superiors , frederick carver , head of the hospital ( kenneth williams ) , and dr . ernest stoppidge ( charles hawtrey ) who seems to dislike everyone .  they attempt to cause him as much trouble in the hospital as possible and all the blame is laid on nookey .  carver learns of a possible job opportunity from wealthy ellen moore ( joan sims ) on a distant tropical island and gets nookey trannsferred there .  when nookey arrives at this island , he meets gladstone screwer ( sid james ) who has lived on the island just about all his life .  screwer is in possession of a wonderful slimming drug made from natural ingredients .  dr . nookey returns with the drug to england and sets up a new slimming business with ellen moore's financial backing .  however , nookey and moore face opposition from screwer who goes to england to cash in on the drug , and carver and stoppidge who want to know the ingredients to create a rival drug .  the performances are all very commendable .  sid james has a slightly ambiguous character to play this time and he excels in his role .  kenneth williams , as usual , plays the unpopular and cunning head of the hospital .  joan sims is entertaining as the wealthy benefactor and jim dale should really head the cast with his excellent portrayal of bumbling nookey .  charles hawtrey plays an 'out-of-character' role as dr . stoppidge , the nasty and evil practitioner who wants to knock nookey off his perch .  some critics have said that this combination of hawtrey and stoppidge does not work well , but i think that it at least gives hawtrey a new part to play instead of the usual dimwit characters .  as a matter of fact , hawtrey is suitably cunning in the part .  other regulars in the movie include hattie jacques as the matron yet again ( but this part is probably her most boring 'matron' ) and barbara windsor as nookey's love interest and unofficial 'women's lib' campaigner , goldie locks .  both jacques and windsor play their parts well .  patsy rowlands appears briefly as miss fosdick , and there are very small cameos from wilfrid brambell ( from 'steptoe and son' fame ) and peter butterworth .  the jokes are mostly very funny , the story is quite appealing , and the regulars seem interested in what they're doing .  although it is another medical carry on movie and some of the jokes are borrowed from previous movies , it still comes out on top ( it is the best medical carry on ) because of the above factors .  a must-see carry on movie . 
neg@ the new austin powers film continues a movie tradition begun in the eighties .  produce something , anything , that will get the high school and junior high kids in the theater because they buy more soda and popcorn than senior citizens .  the usual hallmarks of this filmmaking tradition are all here .  gross humor , sex jokes , silly sight gags , more sex jokes .  and the film is a strong contender in the current race to be cruder , grosser and more outrageous than that last film .  what the film is not , however , is funny .  the plot centers around the return of dr . evil , who goes back in time to steal austin powers' mojo ( a liquid with red stuff in it extracted from austin's pelvis ) which gives austin his sexual prowess and the charisma to defeat his enemies .  austin must go after him , and returns to the swinging sixties where free love and sexy secret agents had their heyday .  i almost avoided this film because i did not like the original .  but the films premise sounded like an excellent comic vehicle and the film received many good reviews .  i wish i had stuck to my first impression .  myers is trying to be the jerry lewis of this generation .  and he has the talent to do it , at least as an actor .  but the material he is working with here , much of it his own , falls short of anything resembling comic genius .  this movie tries to carry the day with sight gags about drinking distilled feces , a five-hundred-pound fat man's butt crack , and a barrage of sex jokes aimed at the level of the average 15 year old .  after some of these scenes , one has to wonder how gross the next generation of films will have to go to get an audiences attention .  the direction also helps the film achieve a new low point in cinematic humor .  for the most part , i felt as if i was watching a saturday morning chalderns live action tv show .  there is no sense of comic timing or subtlety .  the director just throws the material at us , giving us nothing except the hope that anyone with a camera could be a film director .  i am sure the film will have appeal to many of the under 22 crowd , at least the one's who have yet to discover literacy .  certainly the movie is directed towards the generation that prefers everything described as 'in your face , kick you in the teeth , take no prisoners , ( action-verb +blah blah blah ) . '  if you see the film and you find you're not laughing , there is nothing wrong with you .  it just means you grew up since seventh grade . 
pos@ magnolia left me relling from the theatre , staggering from the relentless assault of an adventurous director reveling in his craft .  at nearly three and a half hours , magnolia will strike some as a brute of a film .  it not only demands your attention , but challenges you to grasp the significance of seemingly unrelated storylines and hidden intentions .  it is delirious , depressing , heady , pretentious , surreal filmmaking .  it's also a movie that will polarize its viewers .  director paul thomas anderson takes a talented cast , wraps them in a net of interrelated stories and sets them spinning in a symphony of despair whose song doesn't let up until an oddly exhilerating , biblically influenced pseudo-climax .  the character's make up a modern day gomorrah in the soulless way in which they live their lives .  there is frank mackey ( tom cruise ) , a slithery snake charmer of men whose " search and destroy " seminars teach how to mentally rape a woman to get into her pants .  there is earl partridge ( jason robards ) , a dying media tycoon yearning to make amends for a lfe of callousness by finding his estranged son .  there is game show host jimmy gator ( phillip baker hall ) , a self absorbed tv icon who is hiding more than a few secrets from his public .  and there is police officer jim kurring ( john c . reilly ) , who cloaks himself in the codification of organized religion and the legal system , perhaps masking a man who needs rules to fuel his decision making process .  given equal weight are stories involving a coke-addled emotional cripple ( melora walters ) , a former tv quiz show champion ( william h . macy ) .  a materialistic , adulterous wife ( julianne moore ) , a child ( jeremy blackman ) victimized by a mentally abusive parent , and a caring , empathetic nurse ( philip seymour hoffman ) .  hovering over all these characters is a cloud of death , lies and despair .  it is not a pleasant movie .  there is not one bad note in the acting .  it is affecting and layered and wonderful .  there is a moment where tom cruise wordlessly implodes that rivals work he has done in whole films .  then he tops himself with a mesmerizing deathbed scene .  walters plays her character with red-eyed rawness and a fierce self-destructiveness that is anxiety inducing .  robards convincingly portrays a fading whisper of a man , who still hears a lion's roar when he speaks .  director anderson has apparently given the actors lattitude to emote .  the problem is that he stays on them too long .  julianne moore's character , linda , quickly escalates to a frenzied pitch of guilt , tears , screaming and remorse and never backs off from it .  after a few hours , it turns from interesting to chinese water torture .  quite a few scenes , such as the game show , go on just a bit too long and will be off-putting for those used to a pat 90 minute film where the main theme is reiterated several times just in case you missed it the first go around .  and just what is the theme ?  alienation ?  hopelessness ?  anderson challenges you to draw your own conclusions and he doesn't make it easy .  the film starts by showing three , strange and seemingly unrelated events .  it's a harbinger of the synchronicity to come .  at times , different stories reach reach key moments at the same time .  other times , stories seem to veer off into uncharted territory , regardless of what else is happening .  anderson is audacious enough to even have a group sing in the middle of the film !  what's surprising is that it mostly works .  if you have doubts about anderson's intentions , i'll ask you to pay attention to the final frame .  despite all the sturm und drang , magnolia ultimately speaks to man's capacity for hope and attempts at redemption .  despite magnolia's needlessly long running time and its propensity for uneven editing as anderson plays the auteur , showing off fro the masses , i have to admire his guts .  this is truly adventurous filmmaking that spits in the face of conventional storytelling .  my rating : a bulleye .   ( stars )  a side note : helping anchor the film is a perfectly matched soundtrack featuring aimee mann .  her lyrics often add depth to a scene thematically while the actual music is both morose and beautiful .  when she sings " save me " at the end , it enhances the yearning felt by the characters , just as " wise up " mirrors the anguish felt by all as they contemplate their lives . 
neg@ synopsis : blond criminal psychologist sarah chooses to copulate with greasy tony the mysterious puerto rican rather than bearded cliff the wisecracking neighbor upstairs .  in the meantime , someone sends sarah rotting flowers , puts her name in the newspaper's obituary column , and kills her cat .  comments : never talk to strangers , a colossal waste of time , moves slower than molasses in winter to arrive at a conclusion which should be obvious to the audience 20 minutes into the film .  one wouldn't think that two genuine movie stars , antonio banderas ( evita ) and rebecca de mornay ( hand that rocks the cradle ) , and the acerbic comic genius dennis miller ( " saturday night live " ) would be involved in such a celluloid backfire as this turkey .  not only are they in it , however , but de mornay executive produced it .  what was she thinking ?  never talk to strangers centers upon sarah , a psychologist examining the ill-tempered max , a murderer soon to stand trial .  she receives a sudden visit from her father which elicits flashbacks of some tragedy in her early childhood .  two men woo her ; tony the " security consultant " wins her over ( so they have passionate sex replete with cheesy saxophone music ) .  a lot of psychobabble is thrown around about multiple personality disorder , but the movie asks its audience not to derive the obvious conclusion between mpd and sarah , and instead offers several male characters as red herrings .  86 minutes , the running time of this cinematic mess , thus , seem like 86 hours .  a good chunk of never talk to strangers is spent upon sarah and tony .  why would the career-minded , professional sarah feel attracted to the walking steroid with a black hat called tony ?  that's one of the film's mysteries which are never answered .  regardless of motive , de mornay and banderas strip down and have sex several times in what passes for eroticism .  they also manage to go out before copulating occasionally -- in one of the stupidest scenes of the film , tony takes sarah to a carnival that's * right outside * his dingy apartment ( that way , they can hurry back and have sex quickly ) .  also , apparently , the weather changes quickly in their locale : they're at this outdoor carnival one day before having sex ; the next day , they're out playing in the snow before having sex .  the filmmakers attempt to produce a suspenseful plot interspersed with tony and sarah's " character development . "  someone is out to get poor sarah ( though most of the audience should have figured out who before any of this starts ) .  rotting flowers , a writeup in the obituary , and a beaten neighbor are just a few of the bad things which happen to her .  suspense cliche number one also occurs : whenever someone is stalked in thrillers , by any means , if the stalked has a pet , that pet will die .  oftentimes , to even further the cliche , the murdered pet is a cat ( suspense filmmakers , for some reason , just don't like cats ) .  sarah , in never talk to strangers , receives a package and , lo and behold , discovers her mutilated cat within .  suspense at its very derivative !  as stated before , never talk to strangers is a poor excuse for a film whose sole purpose seems to be exploiting banderas and de mornay's bodies as often as possible .  comedian dennis miller is completely wasted here ( he's not given lines that are suitable for his persona ) and doesn't even appear all that much .  maybe , in a way , he's lucky for that .  early on in the movie , sarah tells tony , after meeting him in a supermarket , that she had been advised to never talk to strangers .  allow me to advise that you never watch this stinker . 
pos@ seen february 15 , 1998 on home video ( borrowed from chris wessell ) .  when it comes to modern gangster movies , it's really difficult to describe and review them without making comparisons to other films of the genre and/or just using the word " routine . "  i've always subscribed to the philosophy that any idea ( no matter how many times it's been used before ) can provide for a good story and " donnie brasco " clinches this idea .  it's not unlike most of the great films of the genre , yet it never apes another's style as it has a good layer of authenticity , even if its core is a tad stale .  the film starts off in typical fashion by defining its atmosphere of new york city in the late 1970s and the mobsters who inhibit it .  we meet lefty ( pacino ) , an aging wiseguy who can still walk the walk and talk the talk .  he and his associates go through the generic motions you expect to see in crime films like this .  somehow he comes across donnie brasco ( depp ) , a younger guy with a lot of spunk who isn't afraid of lefty and his rep , and even manages to befriend him after lefty was ready to kill him .  it's clear donnie is new to the life and lefty recognizes this immediately , telling him all the tricks of the trade .  i have never seen this technique of actually revealing the mafioso idiosyncrasies done before and for this the film deserves credit .  however , we soon realize donnie is actually joe pistone , an fbi agent working undercover - a character who symbolizes the viewer as he will soon be purged into the lifestyle and treated as a newcomer .  the first act works as a guided to ot of rhetoric about wiseguy honor , a brief history of the mob , definitions of their slang , and where their money comes from and who it goes to .  the screenplay is rather sketchy on the details surrounding these elements , however , the fact they are mentioned at all is quite original .  most gangster movies seem to be made with the notion the viewer already knows how the mob works ( probably from watching other gangster movies ) , and although this attitude comes across , the film tries to fill in all the holes where and when it can and the effort is appreciable .  thankfully the film doesn't become too caught up in the tedious details of organized crime , and instead opts for character development .  much of the story is told simply through the interaction between lefty and donnie .  pacino is outstanding here as the pathetic hood who speaks of his job in the same manner any blue collar worker would .  he's old and exhausted but seems to enjoy what he does , just as anyone loyal to the same employer for over 30 years might be .  we learn of his accomplishments , which are quite impressive within their context , and when he complains about not being made top boss , it's easy to sympathize with him .  newell constantly plays up this aspect , making it a major theme which works well in the long run .  as donnie is constantly impressing and even one-upping lefty , it's hard to tell which emotion is more powerful : the fact donnie is getting closer to nailing the mob ; or the fact lefty has once again been over shadowed .  most of the film tells the story of donnie's life in mafia , which creates for many sub-plots and individual conflicts , but doesn't always seem to come together as a whole .  the storytelling is genuinely interesting throughout , even when the motions the characters go through seem familiar .  the resonance to donnie's actual assignment varies , he often reports back to the feds with detail of his progress , but it doesn't always seem to have much meaning .  back home , his wife maggie ( heche ) is ready to divorce him because he's never a and the family is suffering .  since this is based on a true story i wouldn't doubt this would happen , although the way it is handled often borders on the melodramatic .  my only major complaint is the film seems to have no final act , or at least any real sense of closure .  a climax of sorts does occur , but there's little feeling of a payoff .  we get a happy ending , which is good , but perhaps a sad ending would have been more powerful .  aside from a few minor , general flaws , " donnie brasco " manages to be a solid piece of storytelling and character development .  it may be routine , but it's good , and that's respectful . 
neg@ confucius once said , " governing a nation is like cooking a small fish -- don't overdo it . "  his maxim might be easily applied to writing a comedy script , for quantity over quality is one of the worst mistakes an amateur scribe can make .  granted , mike judge , writer-director of the workplace satire office space isn't exactly an amateur ( his most infamous work , the mtv series " beavis and butt-head " was pure gold for its network ) .  but unfailingly , judge manages to make some rather inexcusable mistakes in office space by spreading an iffy plot over too much ground .  the iffiness in judge's plot -- a group of coworkers plan the downfall of their despicable boss -- is not in its appeal .  in fact , based on the popularity of scott adams' cartoon " dilbert , " which will soon have its own television series , a satirical view of the american workplace is a hot item in hollywood .  unfortunately the concept lends itself to skit-length sequences which would be more at home on the set of " saturday night live " rather than a full-length feature .  the most convincing evidence of this are the trailers for office space , which feature almost all of the movie's top content ; this leaves the actual picture appearing very deflated .  other evidence of office space's failure to work are its lack of good jokes .  the comedy is marginally funny at best , but not enough to get a packed house of theater-goers to laugh out loud .  the material in the movie is on-key for an older demographic than judge is used to targeting , and this could partially explain his work here .  however , the movie is loaded with too many misfires -- including the token plot -- to allow for any excuse .  the plot centers around three or four cubicled engineers , headed up by peter gibbons ( ron livingston ) , at a company named initech .  after the movie elaborately establishes the miserable working conditions at initech , the movie introduces us to two consultants ( john c . mcginley and paul willson ) which are in charge of " downsizing " the company's payroll .  when peter and his gang learns of this , as well as the reason behind it -- so their smooth talking boss bill lumbergh ( gary cole ) 's stock will go up -- they set about creating a plan to see his downfall .  the circumstances that follow were obviously intended to be hilarious but they come out as anything but .  a sympathetic cast and a muddled jennifer aniston-as-love-interest subplot are all that keep this one together , but it's definitely missable in lieu of something more intelligent . 
pos@ the 1998 summer movie season is still in its infancy .  but after diasappointing films such as " godzilla " and " fear and loathing in las vegas " , it would be nice to see a really good film .  but i doubt you could have expected this .  the truman show is one of the most unique films i have ever seen , and it deserves a spot on the " decade's best " list .  there is no way to isolate any single component of this picture and proclaim , " yes , that's what makes this film great . "  the blend of peter weir's masterful ( and in many ways brilliant ) direction , peter biziou's stunning photography and jim carrey's performance is what makes this film work so fantastically .  there is something strangely beautiful about every shot in the truman show .  it may be the use of color or the placement of characters in the frame , but everything about this film looks intentional and perfect .  carrey has made a very wise choice .  by playing mild-mannered truman burbank , he allows himself enough room to be comical , and therefore not alienating his true fans , while still showing a vulnerable and human side .  that is a side which has been missing from nearly every major character he has played in his numerous commercial successes .  truman burbank was born to an audience of millions .  he was chosen before birth to be the focus of a 24 hour television show .  everything in his environment is controlled by a team of technicians , led by the show's director , christof ( played by ed harris ) .  everyone in truman's life is an actor or an extra .  they are all being watched by millions of people around the globe , people who can tune in at any time of the day to see what is happening in truman's life .  but he is the only person that is not aware of it .  the classification of the truman show may be tricky .  the audience reacted to many of truman's revelations with laughter .  i did not laugh much during the film because i was so emotionally wrapped up with the character .  the things that made the audience laugh gave me glassy eyes , because what was happening to him , indeed what had been done to him his whole life was wrong .  so is this going to end up labeled as a comedy ?  a drama ?  it really depends on the audience .  but to me , the truman show was a touching , sad tale about the extents to which a corporation will go to exploit human life for the entertainment of others .  but above all else , the truman show was a stunningly beautiful picture with humor , heart and scary realism .  oscar predictions in june are pointless , but if the truman show had been released on schedule in late fall or winter of 1997 , as originally planned , james cameron would be oscar-less . 
neg@ poster boy for co-dependency needs patching  patch adams a film review by michael redman copyright 1999 by michael redman  mediocrity is a pox on civilization .  in our heavily consumer oriented society , there is an enormous demand to churn out " stuff . "  what would happen to our economy if we didn't feel the need to have more things ?  to make us buy more , businesses need to produce a ton of product .  the sheer volume of items necessitates that most of them are of dubious quality .  the film industry is like any other .  in order for studios to survive , they have to make money .  the prevailing attitude is that more films equal more profit .  some movies obviously exist only to put wares on the screen and to do that , less talented people are used .  there aren't enough great directors and actors to create the number of films necessary .  for some reason , it's never crossed anyone's mind that the real equation is quality films = more profit .  often , mediocre films are more of a pain for the audience than the horrendous ones .  at you can have a good time making fun of bad movies .  i'm not suggesting that " patch adams " was tossed out just to rake in the bucks .  my guess is that someone was asleep at the wheel .  it features an accomplished actor and a potentially engrossing story , but it's as dull as could be .  hunter " patch " adams' ( robin williams ) desire to become a doctor has an unusual genesis .  checking himself into a mental institute after a suicide attempt , he discovers that he can help the other patients by clowning around .  patch could be a poster boy for co-dependency .  he explains that he likes devoting himself to others because then he doesn't focus on his own problems .  he decides that he wants to be a physician , leaves the place and a couple of years later enrolls in the medical college of virginia .  as a med student , patch's antics at the school's hospital catch the attention of his soon to be arch-enemy , straight-laced dean walcott ( bob gunton ) .  the dean is so opposed to the goofiness that he wants patch kicked out of school although he's one of the top students .  he writes in patch's academic file that he shows " excessive happiness . "  i walked into the film knowing little about its history and wondered about its odd mechanical pacing .  there also seemed to be no reason that it is set in the early seventies .  then it struck me .  it must be based on a true story .  the movie is an adaptation of a book by hunter adams who founded the gesundheit institute , a free clinic .  robin williams is an amazing actor .  while he is adept at dramatic roles , his forte is over-the-top free spirits .  that's what makes his failure here so remarkable .  patch is exactly the character he should be best at , yet even the scene where he and another mental patient are battling fierce imaginary squirrels falls flat .  something holds him back .  most of the rest of the cast is two-dimensional .  for a film that champions seeing patients as human beings , it's curious that the ones here are cardboard characters .  peter coyote as a man dying of cancer is refreshing because he seems like a real person .  unfortunately he's in the film for only about two minutes .  the audience is blatantly lead by a ring in its nose from scene to scene .  we're not left to our own emotional decisions : we're hit over the head with them .  shaved-headed children with cancer , an elderly woman whom patch makes laugh , a beautiful woman who can't love because of her abusive history .  when a group of students fix up an old house to use as a clinic in the andy hardy " hey , let's put on a play !  we can use the barn and my mom can make the curtains ! "  mode , they laugh and roll around while painting each other .  there might as well be giant signs flashing : " feel good now ! "   " feel bad now ! "   " patch " is a good title for the film .  it is a patchwork of every manipulative scene you can think of .  the full-of-life student fights stodgy establishment types .  there's a touching death .  then there's another .  the film doesn't trust us to get it the first time .  the dean tries to kick patch out and later he tries again .  worst of all is the final courtroom bit .  scary-looking old men sit in judgment of a man who only wants to help people .  the room is packed with patch's supporters .  williams makes a supposedly impassioned speech about the humanity of all .  it has as much emotion as his earlier statement " humans are the only animal that kills members of its own species " contains truth .  most of the blame must be placed with the director tom shadyac and screenwriter steve oedekerk .  shadyac also directed the first " ace ventura " movie .  oedekerk directed the second one .  need i say more ?  the real adams is to be admired for his devotion to treating patients as people rather than diseases .  the film has a number of worthy messages about the state of the modern medical business with hmos and managed care .  the " doctors are not gods " theme will resonate with a number of people , but it's so poorly produced that no one will care . 
pos@ the heist of a flawless , 84 carat diamond , fixed bare knuckle fights , irish gypsies and a dog are just some of the goings on in director guy ritchies's sophomore feature , " snatch . "   " lock , stock and two smoking barrels " intro'd helmer/scripter ritchie with a hyper-kinetic , in your face underworld comedy that grabbed the viewer's attention from beginning to end .  his protagonists were innocents set adrift in a see of sharks to swim or be eaten alive .  with " snatch , " the director doesn't remake his first work , but he does delve more deeply into the criminal underbelly of london , mining a rich collection of characters in the process .  >from the very beginning , " snatch " tosses you into the action with the theft of the fabulous diamond , the desire of new york gangster avi ( dennis farina ) .  en route from antwerp , diamond thief and courier frankie four fingers ( benicio del toro ) stops in london to make a separate deal with avi's partner and cousin , doug " the head " ( mike reid ) .  frankie's addiction to gambling tempts him into making a bet on an illegal boxing match for boris " the blade " ( rade sherbedgia ) , a ruthless russian mobster .  the bet turns out to be a setup for a robbery by a trio of bumbling incompetents - vinnie ( robbie gee ) , sol ( lennie james ) and portly tyrone ( ade ) - that goes miserably awry .  meanwhile , a couple of young toughs , turkish ( jason stratham ) and tommy ( stephen graham ) , are trying to break in to the boxing game with the help of local villain brick top ( alan ford ) , who also owns a pig farm .  when their first fighter is put out of action , with one punch , by a wild irish gypsy named mickey o'neil , they figure to put the loose canon in as the contender in a fixed fight .  mickey proves less than reliable and goes against turkish and tommy's deal .  brick top , impressed by mickey's performance , decides to gives them another chance - after calmly explaining that it takes 16 pigs about eight minutes to completely devour a corpse .  when avi doesn't get his precious rock , he jumps on a plane for london and hires a local legend , " bullet tooth " tony ( vinnie jones ) , to find frankie and the diamond .  things spiral out of control as all these forces head on a collision course of double-cross and double-deals - and a dog that ate a squeaky toy .  guy ritchie ( mr . madonna to some ) is an extraordinarily talented auteur who has a wonderful knack for pulling together his unique collection of cast and crew and feeding them funny and gritty dialog that spews out of the characters' mouths like machine gun fire .  the helmer marshals his large ensemble actors in a frantically paced caper comedy that makes you laugh and feel queasy at the same time , the above description by brick top being just one example .  the assemblage of actors and non-actors in rough-and-tumble settings gives " snatch " an earthy feel in its depiction of london's criminal underworld .  the cast of characters is too large to credit here , but two of the performances - first among equals , you might say - are worth noting .  alan ford is brilliant as the ruthless , evil brick top .  when he refuses sugar in his tea because " i'm sweet enough , " it makes you shiver , even as you laugh .  his is one of the best gangster characters i've seen in years .  the other outstanding perf is given by none other than brad pitt , the name actor the movie's popularity may hang upon , at least initially .  pitt , as mickey o'neil , is hard drinking , hard fighting , highly unreliable and nearly incomprehensible with a unique irish brogue and dialect of the pikers , the irish travelers of europe .  this gypsy brigand would steal the fillings from your teeth , especially if it would benefit his beloved mum ( sorcha cusack ) .  when brick top threaten the safety of mickey's family , he makes an enemy that cannot be stopped .  pitt puts a credible spin on his character and does some incredible physical stuff , too , as a bare-knuckle boxer .  the production team behind the camera includes ritchie alumni , producer matthew vaughn and lenser tim maurice-jones , and other talented technical artist that bring the hyperactive imagination of the author to visual life .  there is a patent feel to the look of " snatch " and " lock , stock and two smoking barrels " that reeks of " signature " for ritchie , but i'm not sure how this will translate in his future works .  there is so much talent in the filmmaker that i would like to see him branch out in other directions .  nonetheless , " snatch " is terrific sophomore effort , a darn good action comedy and a hoot to boot .  i give it a b+ . 
neg@ the above is dialogue from this film , taken almost completely in context , and not jazzed up a bit to make it more inept than it is .  it is spoken between two of the protagonists somewhere in the film , and basically serves as a perfect example of what this film is about , especially if you realize that this exchange is meant to be taken seriously .  mr . gregg " i'm-having-a-mid-life-crisis " araki , the writer and director of this film , wants to show how important teenagers are , and wants to show how they feel in such a horrible , horrible world .  and how does he show it ?  by really cheap surrealism , and moronic exchanges like this .  oh , and it gets better .  a similar bit of dialogue is said in the middle of , oh i dunno , the fiftieth sex scene in this film ( i'm not counting the several masturbation scenes ) .  in it , one of the protagonists is humping away on top of another , and he says to her something along the lines of " do you ever wonder what life is all about ? "  sorry , man : foreplay takes place before the act of coitus .  of course , what do you expect : the film was written and directed by a guy who can't even spell his first name right ( yes , i know it's a cheap joke , but it had to be done ) .   " the doom generation " is advertised as a road trip movie about people who go around killing others who attack them , and also as another " teen angst " film ( one of the slogans is " teen is a four-letter word " - hardy har har ) .  it's a film about two angsty teens - amy blue ( rose macgowan , who would later play the buxom tatum in " scream " ) and jordon white ( james duval , who would go on to play randy quaid's son in " independence day " ) - who pick up an angsty homicidal maniac , xavier red ( jonathan schaech , who would go on to play the angsty lead guitarist in " that thing you do ! "  - and by the way , do you get the symbolism ?  red , white , and blue ?  huh ?  huh ? ) , and go on a road trip where three things happen , in no order : 1 ) they have sex ; 2 ) they run into weird people ; 3 ) they kill them .  the film is basically a remix of a bunch of other far superior films .  gregg araki obviously has seen such films as " easy rider , " " natural born killers , " and " kalifornia , " and tries to borrow elements from all these films and make something which is like a pop culture reference guide .  but what he forgets is these films either represented something that this film does not , or that they dug deep into their subjects and brought something out of them to make them deeper .   " the doom generation " doesn't want to do this ; it just wants to show everything in a surreal manner for the sole reason that araki does not want to deal with them on any kind of real level .  he wants to show everything in a weird manner , and forgets what the scenes are supposed to be about .  here's one scene , an earlier scene in the film : amy and jordan go into a quick-e mart type place to get food and other stuff .  amy is smoking , and the clerk , an asian man mind you ( i love how racist this film is , i really do ) , tells her to put it out .  she tells him to fuck off or something to that note .  he points a shotgun at her , and she puts it out reluctantly .  jordan makes two hot dogs , and takes them to the counter .  the cash register rings up " 6 . 66 "   ( oh , and this symbolism doesn't stop here ) .  jordan checks for his wallet but it's really in the car .  he asks amy for it , but she left her wallet in the car as well .  the clerk brings out his shotgun again and asks for the money .  they say they don't have it .  he gets ready to kill them , but then xavier , who they ditched in the middle of nowhere a scene before , pops out of nowhere , fights with the clerk , and ends with him blowing the clerk's head clean off ( clean wound , mind you ) .  the head is shown flying through the air , and lands in a fryer , where it begins to scream .  i don't really object to this kind of sick violence , but this scene is in the film for one reason and one reason only : to gross you out .  araki thinks that if he takes everything to the extreme , he'll make some kind of art .  wrong .  it takes a kind of resistance to make gore art .  when george romero made " dawn of the dead , " a very gory flick even for today , he had control over everything and still was able to make everything sick .  same goes for peter jackson's disgustingly gory " dead alive , " which features a 30 minute long fest of blood , guts , dismemberments , flesh chewing , and other assorted stuff , all ending with a guy with a lawn mower strapped to his body , taking out all sorts of zombies .  it was sick , but it was also satirical , and controled .  a scene like this has no purpose in the film , and it sticks out from everything else that happens .  here's a couple other scenes : jordan and amy have sex in a bath tub and xavier watches , masturbates , and then licks the semen from his hand ; xavier and amy have sex and jordan watches from the window , masturbates , and falls backwards ; a man attacks the trio , and is stabbed in the crotch by a giant sword ( put there just so this could happen ) ; a fast food employee stalks the trio , and his arm is shot off by xavier ; and various other annoyances .  also , look for about a million camoes from a wide assortment of people , who probably didn't really know what they were getting into when they signed up to do it ( just like peter o'toole , helen mirren , malcolm macdowell , and john gielgud probably didn't when they signed to be in " caligula " ) .  people such as indie actors parker posey and nicky katt , alternative rock stars skinny puppy and perry farrel , hollywood madam heidi fleiss , christopher " peter brady " mcknight , amanda bearse , and margaret cho all grace the screen for a matter of seconds , then disappear so that we can return to the annoying main plot line .  why are they here ?  so that we can all point to them and say " hey , look it's ( fill in the blank ) !  wow ! "  gimme a break .  the film's meaning is pretty easy to detect : that , you know , teens are so precious , and the world is such a horrible place , that when the two entities collide , there's a giant explosion of horrific violence .  otherwise defined as " teen angst , " or the belief that being a teenager is a horrible thing and that the world is too bad for you .  look , i'm 19 years old .  i went through a very brief teen angst thing which curiously lasted about as long as my taste in nirvana did .  i've since moved on to " i don't really know what to do with my life " phase , but the teen angst phase is something which is so annoyingly sophomoric and ignorant that any film that thinks they're dealing with it on any kind of serious level is just beating the wrong horse .  part of being a teen is experimenting , and testing the waters .  it's not whining about how awful parents are , and purposely feeling dispondent .  this is what the characters in this film do , and the film wants to show how they're these great people who are being punished by the world because they're teenagers , and how they try to defend themselves but can't totally overcome them .  it's not their fault they kill people ; it's the world's !  what they really need is a reality check .  the world is a bad place , and teenagers can be easily harmed because they are experimenting .  but part of it is taking everything that happens to you and learning from it .  the film thinks that teenagers are basically doomed , and there's nothing they can do about it .  hence the title .  not only does it have bad fallacy , but it can't even express this in an intelligent and coherent manner .  everything's overly surreal , and all we get are scenes of graphic violence and graphic sex .  how does xavier licking semen off his hand express teen angst ?  how does a talking decapitated head show that teens are dispondent because the world makes them this way ?  and why does the film constantly go back to the teen angst issue of the film ?  if araki had any kind of competence in writing or direction , he'd show them for what they really are .  and if he didn't want the satirical approach , he'd show the real problems with the world .  and if you still don't think that " the doom generation " is incompetent on every single possible level it could be , take the acting .  rose macgowan is horrible .  yes , she proved herself talented in " scream , " but she's so bad in " the doom generation " that if i had not seen her in " scream , " i would have christened her one of the worst actresses working in films today .  her entire performance is one-note ( bitchy ) , and the one scene where she cries over a dead animal is so forced that it's laughable .  equally bad is jonathan schaech , who wants to be the slacker serial killer : someone who doesn't have any remorse because emotions cause some kind of strain .  his performance is annoying as hell , and granted , he was better in " that thing you do ! "  and then there's james duval .  let's just say he makes keanu reeves look like brando .  he has the same kind of slacker stuttering , only much much much worse , and every line he says is so bad that i have now deemed him " least talented actor in the world . "  i have seen lots of bad actors , but james duval has got to be the worst .  or at least somewhere up there .  here's another example of a bad scene , if you're still not convinced : the film opens up in a club where they're playing nine inch nail's most banal song , " heresy " ( example of the lines : " god is dead/and no one cares/if there is a hell/i'll see you there " ) , and as the song plays , and red strobe lights show the patrons dancing , the film pans over to amy , just standing there , looking dispondent .  the film closes in on her , she looks right at the camera and says " fuck . "  no explanation of this should be necessary .  and finally , a note to gregg : grow up .  really .  move out of your parent's basement , read something other than salinger , and get a day job .  and don't quit it . 
pos@ synopsis : committed to an asylum , the marquis de sade ( rush ) continues to publish pornographic literature , aided by young maid madeleine ( winslet ) .  abbe coulmier ( phoenix ) , who runs the hospital , disapproves of the stories , but humours him in the hope of achieving a cure .  de sade's craft and life are threatened when the emperor dispatches dr royer-collard ( michael caine ) to stop the marquis' work , permanently .  review : " quills " is an exploration of the marquis de sade : his madness , his cruelty and his perversion , his obsession with sex in any form , no matter how obscene .  but " quills " also details the marquis' determination : to write in spite of the obstacles put in his path , and to propagate his words to the masses .  the extent to which de sade is willing to go to practise his trade is amongst the movie's most intriguing elements , as when de sade scribes a story in his own blood , or narrates a tale via of a chain of fellow inmates , cell to cell .  to provide a contrast with the marquis , wright involves him with two very different characters .  one is the abbe , a handsome , charming and kindly man whose desires are stymied by his oath to god .  the abbe lusts for madeleine , but it is the wizened marquis who is able to have her .  and then there is royer-collard , a hypocrite who in truth is as sadistic as any of the marquis' motley creations .  rush is splendid as de sade , utterly inhabiting the character .  kaufman's direction is fine , and he is able to bring a sense of bizarre humour to the grim proceedings .  the plot itself is rather mundane and plays out unsurprisingly , but this is virtually unimportant .  for two hours , " quills " acquaints us with the marquis de sade -- and , more frightening still , allows us brief insight into his scatological soul . 
neg@ let's get this one over with as quickly as possible .  if there was a possibility to receive a refund , this review would not be forthcoming .  but as it is , " godzilla " is without a doubt the loudest , longest , and ultimately most amateurishly written film ever released through a major studio .  producer dean devlin and director roland emmerich should be ashamed of themselves , and as penance be forced to return to film school to watch " last year at merienbad " until they can grasp the idea of content and plot .  no amount of hype , no amount of money can hide the fact that these filmmakers are the 90s equivalent to william beaudine ( billy the kid vs .  dracula ) .   " godzilla " opens with stock footage of the bikini atoll nuclear tests interspersed with footage of iguanas playfully swimming and nuzzling their eggs .  we are then introduced to the crew of a japanese fish canning ship ( a questionable enterprise considering that tuna processing is supposed to be supervised to eliminate the netting of dolphins ) .  well , the ship is attacked and sunk by an unseen creature .  later , a group of frenchmen led by philippe roache ( jean reno ) interview the sole survivor .  in a state of shock , the only thing the man can utter is the word " gojira " ( the japanese name of the famed beast ) .  we are then introduced to dr . nick tatopoulos ( matthew broderick , with a moniker obviously taken from the effects designer of the film ) .  he is currently studying the effects that the chernobyl disaster has had on the local earthworm population .  he is immediately drafted by the u . s . military and taken to panama where he is shown the huge footprints of a creature .  in a short amount of time , another fishing boat ( loaded with canned tuna from the u . s . and korea for some reason ) is found grounded in jamaica .  well , it seems that whatever is eating these ships is headed for new york .  when the beast finally appears , he tears up one building , stomps a couple of trucks and makes life hell for the incumbent mayor ebert ( thumbs up for new york ) .  the military , with dr . tatopoulos's help , have two tons of fresh fish dumped in the middle of new york to lure the beast out of its hiding place in the new york subway system .  it finally comes crashing through the city streets and has a cute face to face with dr . tatopoulos who snaps the beast's picture .  the monster eats the fish , the military starts shooting , and the chase is on , with the army causing 90% of the ensuing damage .  working from a hunch as to why godzilla has decided to come to the big apple , dr . totopoulos buys a few home pregnancy kits from a local drugstore that has chosen to remain open ( even though new york has been evacuated ) .  well the test proves that the monster is a hermaphrodite and is pregnant .  needless to say , no one believes the good doctor about his discovery , so he must join up with the renegade french secret service agents and find the monster's nesting site and destroy the eggs before the mayor starts letting the populous back into the city ( even though the monster isn't dead yet ) .  i sincerely hope that i've completely spoiled any interest anyone might have of seeing this film .  i gave away the relevant plot so that i could spare those of you courageous ( or foolish ) enough to drop down an hour's wage on this tripe .  everything about " godzilla " reeks almost as bad as the piles of rotting fish used to trap the beast .  the script ( and let's be clear here ) by devlin and emmerich is so full of plot holes and non characters as to be sure to be the recipient of next years " razzie " award .  the dialogue between maria pitillo ( as audrey timmonds , dr . tatopoulos' estranged girlfriend ) and mr . broderick is so adolescent , it makes teenagers giggle in disbelief ( as happened during the screening i witnessed ) .  the film could be enjoyably campy if it didn't take itself so damn seriously .  but to what end , as there is no commentary on humanities foibles against nature , nor is there any reference about godzilla being some sort of retaliation against mankind .  no . godzilla is just a big dummy that got knocked up by some french immigrants and decided to let the state of new york pay for it .  the film is bleak and ugly looking .  taking place at night during a rain storm , the movie has little or no depth .  everything is ugly and dark .  new york has never looked so inhospitable since " death wish " .  in an attempt to give the film some color , audrey timmonds carries a bright red umbrella which is unique in that everyone else in the film carries the standard gray issue .  the only moment of composition and color is during the brief scenes on jamaica , where dr . tatopoulos finds himself standing in a giant footprint .  the scene is nicely photographed but poorly set up .  you know from the outset that nick is standing in a footprint .  for a scientist , this is very poor observation .  let's look at some of the more interesting plot holes in the film ( this activity , is becoming almost as popular as the kevin bacon game ) :  1 . ) why does the french nuclear tests only affect one clutch of iguana eggs , and how do those eggs fuse into one beast ?  2 . ) why would a cold blooded creature choose a cold climate ( such as new york ) to nest ?  i don't think iguana's have a habit of migrating .  3 . ) how can godzilla crawl through the new york subway system , slice a submarine in half , yet be unable to extricate himself from some thin ( in comparison ) steel cable on the brooklyn bridge ?  4 . ) the brooklyn bridge is the only suspension bridge in existence that does not need it's suspension cables .  5 . ) did godzilla carry all two hundred eggs in her belly ?  if so , then radioactive mutations surely are wondrous creatures .   ( note : each egg is 10 feet tall and almost as wide .  godzilla would have to be over 1 , 000 feet tall to carry them all ) .  6 . ) godzilla can crush ships and eat helicopters , but new york cabs are made of stronger steel .  7 . ) godzilla can out maneuver helicopters , bullets , torpedoes and missiles , but can't catch you on foot .  8 . ) taxis can out maneuver godzilla .  9 . ) godzilla can burrow through the subway system but can't tear through the park avenue tunnel .  10 . ) why was nothing else mutated by the nuclear test as quickly as godzilla ?  maybe a giant hermit crab in the sequel .  11 . ) galapagos iguana's actually live in the french polynesian islands ?  12 . ) why was dr . tatopoulos brought in by the military if they were not going to listen to him anyway ?  13 . ) how did they evacuate new york island in less than a day , and how did they convince those new yorkers to go to new jersey ?  14 . ) new york television stations use vhs tape for both filming and broadcasting .  new yorkers hate beta cam .  i could go on and on , but that would only serve to make the film seem more enjoyable than it is .  don't be fooled , this film has less gray matter than any episode of " america's funniest home videos " .  the performances in the film are singularly bland .  not one performance belays any awe or fear in the face of this two hundred foot tall terror .  the characters , in the midst of the onslaught , have time to stop and discuss the lack of good coffee , failed relationships , career choices .  the only common occurrence that doesn't take place here is having one of the characters have a bowel movement , but then that would have made them believable .  godzilla for the most part is okay .  the design of the beast is funky , if not very memorable .  one thing that comes to mind-- the major redirection of godzilla in this film is to remove his most familiar trademark , namely his atomic breath .  now , i for one can't quite fathom how you can call this monster godzilla without that little trait .  a good comparison would be to make a superman film and eliminate his ability to fly .  there is so much wrong with this film that i can't really recall anything recently that has left me this cold hearted ( except for my divorce ) .  any film that can have a two ton lizard slipping on gum balls has got to be envisioned under the influence of prozac .  the addition of the baby raptors ( ah , i meant godzillas ) , are nothing but a direct rip off of 'jurassic park " , but with none of that film's suspense or tension .  suffice to say that , " godzilla " is without a doubt the most brain dead motion picture of the decade .  this is a film that needed the hype .  with the current level of writing and directing , nothing else about the film succeeds .  if you've seen the trailers , you've seen the best parts .  my only suggestion for mr . d and mr . e . is that they could always go back to selling shoes .   . this film could be the next " rocky horror " .  only it's not funny ! 
pos@ films adapted from comic books have had plenty of success , whether they're about superheroes ( batman , superman , spawn ) , or geared toward kids ( casper ) or the arthouse crowd ( ghost world ) , but there's never really been a comic book like from hell before .  for starters , it was created by alan moore ( and eddie campbell ) , who brought the medium to a whole new level in the mid '80s with a 12-part series called the watchmen .  to say moore and campbell thoroughly researched the subject of jack the ripper would be like saying michael jackson is starting to look a little odd .  the book ( or " graphic novel , " if you will ) is over 500 pages long and includes nearly 30 more that consist of nothing but footnotes .  in other words , don't dismiss this film because of its source .  if you can get past the whole comic book thing , you might find another stumbling block in from hell's directors , albert and allen hughes .  getting the hughes brothers to direct this seems almost as ludicrous as casting carrot top in , well , anything , but riddle me this : who better to direct a film that's set in the ghetto and features really violent street crime than the mad geniuses behind menace ii society ?  the ghetto in question is , of course , whitechapel in 1888 london's east end .  it's a filthy , sooty place where the whores ( called " unfortunates " ) are starting to get a little nervous about this mysterious psychopath who has been carving through their profession with surgical precision .  when the first stiff turns up , copper peter godley ( robbie coltrane , the world is not enough ) calls in inspector frederick abberline ( johnny depp , blow ) to crack the case .  abberline , a widower , has prophetic dreams he unsuccessfully tries to quell with copious amounts of absinthe and opium .  upon arriving in whitechapel , he befriends an unfortunate named mary kelly ( heather graham , say it isn't so ) and proceeds to investigate the horribly gruesome crimes that even the police surgeon can't stomach .  i don't think anyone needs to be briefed on jack the ripper , so i won't go into the particulars here , other than to say moore and campbell have a unique and interesting theory about both the identity of the killer and the reasons he chooses to slay .  in the comic , they don't bother cloaking the identity of the ripper , but screenwriters terry hayes ( vertical limit ) and rafael yglesias ( les mis ? rables ) do a good job of keeping him hidden from viewers until the very end .  it's funny to watch the locals blindly point the finger of blame at jews and indians because , after all , an englishman could never be capable of committing such ghastly acts .  and from hell's ending had me whistling the stonecutters song from the simpsons for days ( " who holds back the electric car/who made steve guttenberg a star ? " ) .  don't worry - it'll all make sense when you see it .  now onto from hell's appearance : it's certainly dark and bleak enough , and it's surprising to see how much more it looks like a tim burton film than planet of the apes did ( at times , it seems like sleepy hollow 2 ) .  the print i saw wasn't completely finished ( both color and music had not been finalized , so no comments about marilyn manson ) , but cinematographer peter deming ( don't say a word ) ably captures the dreariness of victorian-era london and helped make the flashy killing scenes remind me of the crazy flashbacks in twin peaks , even though the violence in the film pales in comparison to that in the black-and-white comic .  oscar winner martin childs' ( shakespeare in love ) production design turns the original prague surroundings into one creepy place .  even the acting in from hell is solid , with the dreamy depp turning in a typically strong performance and deftly handling a british accent .  ians holm ( joe gould's secret ) and richardson ( 102 dalmatians ) log in great supporting roles , but the big surprise here is graham .  i cringed the first time she opened her mouth , imagining her attempt at an irish accent , but it actually wasn't half bad .  the film , however , is all good .  2 : 00 - r for strong violence/gore , sexuality , language and drug content 
neg@ battlefield long , boring and just plain stupid  battlefield earth  a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman  in my mid-teen years , i had a horrendous re-occurring nightmare .  behind the wheel of a car , i was driving down a straight road in the middle of a desert .  no scenery except the horizon line and the converging parallel lines of the highway .  no matter what i did , the view didn't change : travelling but not getting anywhere .  each time i awoke in a sweat , terrified .  you don't have to be carl jung to understand that dream .  powerless to make changes , trapped in a boring situation with no hope of rescue , this is the stuff of nightmares whether we are asleep or awake .  this is exactly how you will feel 15 minutes after " battlefield earth " begins .  for all of its flash and style , l . ron hubbard's science fiction epic is the earliest and best entry for the dullest summer film of 2000 .  dull " and " stupid .  in the year 3000 , the psychlo aliens have ruled our planet for 1 , 000 years .  humans either work as slave labor in mining operations or live as barbarians .  there's no hope .  the future is bleak .  then the psychlo make a mistake and capture feisty jonnie goodboy tyler ( barry pepper ) who organizes a revolution against chief of security terl ( john travolta ) and the alien race .  it's an archetypal post-apocalyptic plot full of promise .  considering some of the talent involved and all the millions thrown at the screen , it's difficult to see how it could have failed so miserably .  but it does .  the story is so full of holes that it falls apart within minutes of the opening credits .  are we really supposed to believe that after a millennium of looking for gold , the psychlo never discovered fort knox ?  or that fighter planes are still in pristine condition after all that time -- and gassed up ?  or that the cavemen become such expert pilots in seven days that they can easily down the advanced alien ships ?  or that the psychlo spy cameras somehow don't notice that their slaves are missing for days ?  travolta prances across the screen hamming it up for all he's worth and is almost entertaining .  almost .  the rest of the actors are wooden mannequins trying not to laugh while delivering lines that no person -- " man-animal " or not -- would ever utter .  some of the film _looks_ good , but it also looks so familiar .  a race of large hulking ape-like creatures has taken over the world while our cities lie in ruin .  sound like something charlton heston might be in ?  the psychlo look like overweight klingons in gear from " dune " .  the final air battle between the air force fighters and the psychlo ships in their high-tech city is something george lucas might have been associated with .  it's too loud .  it's too oppressive .  it's too slow .  it's too long . . . far  too long .  and on it goes .  the list of the problems with " battlefield earth " is endless .  it's difficult to find anything in the film that does work .  oh yeah .  the color scheme is nice .  the real question is how this movie ever got made .  could it have something to do with the fact that l . ron hubbard was the founder of scientology ?  and that john travolta is a member of the church .  that might explain why travolta bought the rights to the novel years ago .  but it doesn't give us a clue as to why first-time screenwriter corey mandell's atrocious script was used .  or why the high-profile project was entrusted with roger christian who had never before directed a major film .  or why no one looked at this thing before it was released and realized there might be problems .  the one bright spot is that no longer will kevin costner's " the postman " ( which i begrudgingly admit as a guilty pleasure ) be " the " big budget science fiction failure .   " battlefield earth " has the honor sewed up .  often reviewers will recommend that you skip mediocre films and wait for the video .  that's not the case here .  you can act now and make the decision to not see it on the big screen or on the small one .  don't hesitate .  strike now while the iron is cold . 
pos@ note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers .  be forewarned .  on december 20 , 1996 , amidst all the year-end oscar bait releases from the major studios , miramax's genre label dimension films quietly released a sly little ensemble slasher flick titled scream .  although the teen horror market had been given up for all-but-dead in recent years , the film shocked industry observers by scoring consistently high box office returns , eventually topping $100 million domestic and becoming one of the most successful films of its type in history , while delighting audiences by finally presenting a set of knowing slasher flick protagonists who were aware of the all the standard cliches associated with the genre .  the sleeper success of scream sent shockwaves through the industry -- suddenly , everybody was looking for hip , inexpensive fright films that might be able to reap similar fortunes .  the strategy of casting young tv stars to draw the youth demographic was given a boost .  scream director wes craven , previously best known as the creator of new line's a nightmare on elm street film series , was thrust back into the limelight .  and scream's rookie scribe , kevin williamson , burst onto the film scene in stunning fashion .  it's hard to understate this last point .  mr . williamson has , based upon his produced screenplays as of this writing ( scream , i know what you did last summer from october 1997 , and now scream 2 ) , enjoyed a meteoric rise to fame , quickly become the most well-known screenwriter amongst the entertainment weekly-reading , box office figure-watching youth culture since -- well , since that quentin tarantino guy ( whom , it is said , has also achieved some renown as a director ) .  indeed , in a singularly freakish oddity , it is the screenwriter , mr . williamson , and not the director that has been receiving the lion's share of acclaim for the success of scream , and the print advertisements for scream 2's theatrical release are similarly indicative of his increasing prominence : while the traditional " a film by wes craven " drapes the film's title in the ads , right below it ( in equal sized font , yet ) reads " written by kevin williamson " , an affirmation of the screenwriter's contribution to the project which may be unprecedented .   ( i can envision the board of wga , licking their chops at this coup and counting the days until their goal of " a film by " is attained . )  and , much like mr . tarantino's screenwriting , mr . williamson's work is vaguely unconventional , incorporating both contemporary pop culture references and allusions to other films into the dialogue of his characters .  in scream , they satirically discussed other horror films ; here in the sequel , the characters discuss the relative merits of film sequels .  scream was written in 1995 during the infamous bob dole rampage against hollywood , and mr . williamson's rejection of this tirade clearly influenced the writing in both that film and this sequel .  while the sequel was planned from the outset -- a treatment of scream 2 was included when mr . williamson sold the screenplay for scream -- the basic premise for the film and the reunion of the surviving characters nevertheless seems extremely artificially contrived , and it's only at about the film's midway point when it becomes engaging .  like its predecessor , scream 2 opens with a splashy , eye-grabbing prologue which only vaguely ties into the film's principal narrative ; this time around , we're following the exploits of a young couple ( jada pinkett and omar epps ) attending a riotously gleeful sneak preview screening of stab ( a running film-within-a-film gag where the " true life " events behind the first film has been turned into a movie ) .  however , although it tries hard and has some good ideas -- the nightmarishly enthusiastic audience in the film vaguely reminded me of the one i was sharing the theatre with , and i was certainly thinking about gutting the overly-noisy person a few seats away myself after about fifteen minutes -- the prologue is a pale imitation of the bravura opening sequence in the original with drew barrymore ( where her performance not only convinced me that she * could * act , but was so good that it would rank among the best performances in a horror film that i've ever seen ) .  there are too many knowing , hip pop-culture references crammed into the scream 2 sequence , and the setup isn't nearly as cleverly frightening as scream's ; while the first film's preface dizzyingly built up to a final shot that was exhilaratingly terrifying , the payoff here is almost campily theatrical .  flash to the campus of a smalltown ohio college , where returning characters sidney ( neve campbell ) and randy ( jamie kennedy ) have relocated for their studies and to escape the notoriety from the events in the first film .  the murders which open this film result in reuniting the survivors -- single-minded tabloid tv reporter gale weathers ( courteney cox ) roars into town to cover the breaking story , while ever-awkward former deputy dewey riley ( david arquette ) flies in to protectively guard over sidney .  they're joined by cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , who was falsely accused of homicide in a cameo appearance during the first film ; his role here is significantly expanded .  the film incidentally provides surprisingly little backstory , although i suppose a good case can be made that it really isn't necessary -- not because so many people have seen the first installment , but because this is , after all , a sequel to a slasher film : what do you * think * happened to these characters in the prior movie ?  there's a lot of new faces on the scene too : sidney's new boyfriend , derek ( jerry o'connell ) and her new roommate hallie ( elise neal ) , randy's fellow film student mickey ( timothy olyphant ) , gale's newly-assigned nervous cameraman joel ( duane martin ) , omnipresent local journalist debbie salt ( laurie metcalf ) , co-ed cici cooper ( ms . buffy herself , sarah michelle gellar ) , and a pair of simpering sorority sisters ( rebecca gayheart and sirens' portia di rossi ) .  any of these characters could be the killer -- or for that matter , could be the next victim .  as is seemingly becoming a regular staple of a kevin williamson screenplay , the narrative is once again framed around the increasingly-flimsy premise of a whodunit .  one problem that scream didn't have was keeping you interested in the identity of the killer .  here ( and to some extent in i know what you did last summer ) , mr . williamson's screenplay seems slightly hampered by trying to turn the identity of the killer into a mystery .  the film occasionally becomes so bogged down with misdirection that you can sense it straining at the seams to try and drop red herrings left and right at the expense of its thriller elements .   ( it doesn't help matters any that the killer's alter-ego is fairly obvious from the get-go . )  indeed , the finale plays as full-out camp when the villain is finally unmasked , frothing at the mouth with glazed eyes .  this is one of those cases where the villain goes on such an endless diatribe about their machinations , scheming , and motivation , that you actually get bored listening and just want them all to get on with it .  while the basic setup and premise for the film is fairly contrived , the aspect where it's head-and-shoulders above its predecessor is in its suspense sequences .  they're staged much more imaginatively here ( save for the first post-prologue murder , which is handled in such a mediocre , conventional fashion that it seems to be culled directly from the predictable 1980s slasher flicks that the first film satirized ) , and are much more fun to watch .  it's hard to hold back a smile during a giddy scene where sidney and her companion have to climb over the incapacitated killer in order to escape from a car wreck , and a cat-and-mouse chase involving gale and dewey in a campus sound lab is very nicely staged , although its ultimate resolution is hilariously overblown .  in terms of its characters , the strong part of the film is the interesting relationship between gale and dewey ( who ambles onto the screen accompanied by his very own theme music ) .  their verbal sparring at the outset provides much humour -- an exchange where dewey defensively rebukes charges of a perceived aura of incompetency is well-written -- and there's a curiously endearing aspect about their relationship amidst all the mayhem and bloodshed .  on the other hand , sidney is pretty dull here .  she doesn't have any compelling presence , and there's nothing particularly interesting about her this time around to make us care about her other than that she's the returning heroine .  given this , and the fact that there's no strong second banana character for sidney ( elise neal's role isn't nearly substantive enough to adequately fill rose mcgowan's shoes ) , it's no wonder why the roles for gale and dewey have been significantly augmented for this installment of the film .  what surprises me the most about scream 2 is its zealousness in decimating its cast .  the film's mounting body count bears out the fact that * no * character is safe ( well , * almost * ) ; while in principal i applaud this bold policy , at some point you've got to be wondering about just how many characters will make it to the next sequel .   ( i was particularly surprised with the untimely demise of one in particular , whose casting for the next installment of the series would've seemed obvious . )  but hey , as rose mcgowan's character said in the first film : " no , please don't kill me , mr . ghostface -- i want to be in the sequel ! "  look what that got her . 
neg@ at times , you'd think edtv would be an entertaining film .  i mean , who can resist the story of your average joe becomming a celebrity by having his life filmed every minute of every day ?  but this average joe , ed perkuny , ( matthew mcconaughay ) , is a sappy , lifeless creation that wanders around , trying to solve everyone's problems and settle his own .  mcconaughay is awful , especially because he is trying to pull off his usual hollywood charm with a 3 week beard and torn jeans .  frankly , he had more charm in the devestating flop the newton boys .  he overacts in every way : his overexaggerant body language , obsession with kissing women every second he gets the chance , and that cliched scene where he loses someone in his life , and drops to his knee and cries .  the rest of the cast is very good ; especially martin landau ( as ed's step-father ) , who plays a cute role as the close-to-death old guy that makes all the witty comments .  jenna elfman is good , ( but a little overemotional ) ; her main problem is that she keeps getting sucked into bad films , i . e .  can't hardly wait , and krippendorf's tribe .  woody harrelson , as ed's brother ray , does his usual egg-headed role , with his comic wit as well ( he wrote a book entitled , " my brother pissed on me . " )  elizabeth hurley is perfectly cast as the easy slut , and dennis hopper , in a quick cameo as ed's biological father , is a nice choice ( ironically coming after the role he turned down as christof in the truman show ) .  ellen degeneres stood out as the executive who , after awhile , decides the show must not go on much to the opposite of the head exec , rob reiner's opinion .  i hate to compare this film to the truman show , but the fact is , i was ashamed to see this movie .  it felt that i had dropped from college to kindergarten after seeing truman and ed .  edtv had no real wit or genius ; it was typical hollywood .  extracting the tv part of the movie , you have the simple plotline : man steals brother's girlfriend , girlfriend leaves town , man gets new slut girlfriend to feel like he can move on , slut breaks up with him , real girlfriend comes back , and voila , you have a romance .  i got so restless during this movie , i almost walked out .  the only reason it doesn't drop below a " c " grade is because of the fine supporting performances .  ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and  i like it .  i like breathing through it . "  -jack nicholson , chinatown 
pos@ the uncompromising nudity bared throughout petrice chereau's intimacy has already garnered much notoriety , but it's in the naked faces of fearless actors mark rylance ( angels & insects ) and kerry fox ( welcome to sarajevo ) that the tender ache of emotional resonance is discovered .  with sharp , intelligent eyes that reflect experience and maturity , rylance and fox are refreshingly detached from the false glamour of hollywood idols .  their sex scenes together are bracing in their raw honesty , in the acceptance of flesh and messiness .  less apparent , but no less remarkable , are the astute observations of behavior revealed through those carnal beats of haste and hesitance , often without a single line of dialogue .  not aiming for the spiritual poetry of in the realm of the senses or the philosophical transgressions of crash , chereau keeps his sexual odyssey firmly grounded in terms of straightforward character development .  that may be the very reason why intimacy seems unerringly impressive but never particularly significant on more than a tactile , sensory level .  the themes of human isolation are barren and obvious , a science project devoid of any especially groundbreaking hypothesis .  intimacy does manage to stand out from lesser portraits of " human interconnectedness " and pinter-esque rummages through psychological dirty drawers ( okay , kill me ) .  shallow though it might sound , it's amazing how much is filled in through an inspired cast , perceptive camerawork , and imaginative ways of treating the love scene .  those ingredients are too assured and confident to merely dismiss as icing on the cake , especially since they are the substance of the cake itself .  adapted from a pair of short stories by british novelist hanif kureishi , intimacy weaves desperate lovemaking between two strangers in london .  every wednesday , jay ( rylance ) and claire ( fox ) meet in his cluttered , dank apartment for an hour or two of sexual release from their uninspired lives .  he's been head bartender at a posh restaurant for over six years .  she's a mystery to him but her glum workaday appearance reveals a similar dissatisfaction .  they're both married , but his relationship has curdled into an embittered separation .  as the weeks draw on , jay obsessively takes it upon himself to uncover claire's personal routines .  in his attempt to gain a fuller semblance of who she is , he opens wounds that hadn't existed before by single-handedly corrupting the fantasy .  if it weren't for a few unnecessary subplots involving jay's brother and his bevy of disgruntled co-workers , this minimalist premise might be described as a modern fable on the perils of wish fulfillment .  chareau's restless camera ( once again wielded by superb and ever-attentive cinematographer eric gautier ) is less appropriate here than in his family transit-oriented those who love me can take the train .  the scenes that linger are the still ones where rylance and fox separately , pensively attempt to carry on with their makeshift household routines .  these are often captured in lingering , unblinking wide shots that view them stranded amidst their drab workplaces and homes .  separation proves haunting in a melancholy series of intercut shots as rylance and fox undress on opposite sides of the room , crawling across the floor to meet in the center .  despite being as restless as a fly during the hyperactive restaurant scenes ( all the better to blend in with a hustling crowd of gabby trendsetters ) , you'd be hard pressed to find a single uninteresting image .  intimacy takes an interest in its sordid world of the lower-middle class , with lonely pubs and busy shopping streets -- it also understands the people who inhabit those spaces , viewing them with sympathy scraped raw .  an evaluation would be incomplete without highlighting the great timothy spall ( the robust scene-stealer of many a mike leigh collaboration ) .  as claire's cuckolded husband , this jocular heavyweight plays out his handful of bitter pill scenes with the unforced menace and self-effacing embarrassment of his imposing bulk .  bangs in his eyes , his mouth forming into quizzical pouts and dry smirks , he may seem the fool in his barroom encounters opposite a sarcastic , gleaming mark rylance ( whose jay has arrived on the scene looking to stir up some trouble ) , but spall is no one to trifle with .  his overreaching best pal demeanor suggests a mind abuzz with secret passageways of guile , his pointed questions only na ? ve if you choose not to read into their crafty insinuations .  in his unassuming way , spall's carefully etched interpretation of hostility buried under a mountain of surface propriety may become one of the most criminally underappreciated performances of the year , but maybe also one of the best .  he's that good . 
neg@ i wish i could have been in the pitch meeting for this ridiculous notion of a sports film .  i bet it was some hotshot warner brothers agent with an dark armani suit and manicured fingernails saying , " it would be a very light comedic version of any given sunday , and we could throw in the hoosiers angle with the casting of gene hackman as the tough but determined coach .  throw in that hunk of a guy keanu reeves and a cast of wacky characters and poof !  we'll have a hit on our hands ! "  the replacements is a hokey mistake of a football film , a mishmash collage of one-dimensional characters , rampant stereotypes of cultures and races , cliched emotional statements of purpose , and keanu reeves wishing for the matrix sequel to start principal photography .  the story is loosely based around the pro football players' strike in 1987 and a rag-tag team of replacement football players taking up the reins of professional play for a variety of teams with names like the washington sentinels .  keanu reeves stars as shane falco , a has-been football college player looking for redemption .  gene hackman dons a fedora like tom landry and speaks with gusto like a certain coach in hoosiers .  rounding out the cast includes swingers' jon favreau , 7-up pitchman orlando jones , gruff owner jack warden , and cast of wacky and unknown actors who do amazing jobs of portraying perfectly stereotyped characters : the drunken welshman , the overweight sumo wrestler , the black convict , the violent cop , and the dumb , dumb cheerleaders .  this bunch of nobodies try to make something of themselves by taking the team to the season playoffs with unbelievable football plays , gene hackman yelling and asking himself where the hell dennis hopper is , keanu reeves looking for his body double making him look good on the football field , and cheerleaders hired from the local strip club making the girls from coyote ugly look like waitresses from denny's .  the usual things happen like clockwork .  the hero rises from the ashes of failure , the team comes together in unity , the hero falls in love with a conventional love interest , the football games are won with enough schlock value to make the most ignorant of audiences cheer and clap , and the cheerleaders make you want to go home and watch late night movies on cinemax .  it's also a shame when decent directors with good movies under their belts go to seed and become television and sequel hacks .  howard deutch , who was behind the camera for two of the best films of '80s - pretty in pink and some kind of wonderful , has since been doing grumpier old men and caroline in the city episodes .  obviously the problem is that without a good script , any director will fail in the end .  sports films are strong vehicles for cinematic glory , gritty tales involving the honor of men and the valiant efforts taken for the ultimate goal of victory in the face of insurmountable odds , the rise and fall of gallant heroes , and stories of dramatic gusto painted with blood and sweat on the battlefield of life .  the replacements offers none of this . 
pos@ i have to admit that i disliked this film initially .  it certianly isn't for every taste , and it's sheer torture to sit through if you're in a restless mood .  that said , if you are in the right mood , it's absolutely incredible .  this was my second favorite movie of 1998 , and would have been a shoo-in for first in almost any other year .  perhaps the big turn-off for many was this film's unconventionality .  i'd be hard-pressed to compare it to any other film that i've seen - it is very , very artsy , incredibly slow - and amazingly , it works beautifully .  on my second viewing , i realized that the film follows the three act structure ( i didn't think it had any sort of structure at all when i first saw it ) .  the first act serves to set up the characters - sort of .  it exists even moreso to set a mood of tension and restlesness , and perhaps even feelings of boredom .  and then it is shattered by the intense violence of the second ( which encompasses most of the movie ) .  the majority of the film is one extended battle scene , intercut with brief flashbacks and voice-overs .  the artsier elements do not detract from the action , but add to it - they succeed in briefly letting the viewer peek into the minds of the soldiers , only to be suddenly yanked back into reality when the battle resumes .  the battle scenes are amazing ( second only to " saving private ryan " in my opinion ) .  they're brutal , horrifying , and at times beautiful due to the amazing cinematography .  the second act is as immersive , brilliant , and haunting as any film that i have ever seen .  the only problems come during the first and third acts .  malick takes a little too long to get the film started .  although the initial scenes - which consist of two soldiers' experiencing a near-eden-like paradise while going awol , and the preperations for battle - are effective and necessary , hints of pretentiousness sink in .  the film is just a tad too artsy near the beginning , and a lot of people that disliked the movie probably gave up on it because of this .  the final act is effective at winding the film down , but the problems from the first persist - it's a bit too long , and comes over as pretentious at times .  that said , there are two sequences ( one where a soldier gets a devastating note from his wife , and another where one of the main characters is killed ) that are nothing short of incredible .  the performances are phenominal all around .  the two standouts are nick nolte and newcomer jim caviezel , both of whom should have been nominated for oscars .  nolte is riveting and intense as the colonel in charge of the operation .  his character is hard , mean , and somewhat reckless with the lives of his men , and yet nolte somehow manages to evoke sympathy for him .  caviezel is forever questioning the nature of war , his place in it , and if there's any deeper meaning to the hell that he's going through .  he is absolutely perfect - genuine , sympathetic , sincere , and yet strong when he needs to be .  although restricted to a relatively small role , sean penn is also very good as the company's pessimistic seargent .  as to how it stacks up to " saving private ryan " - it was my second favorite movie of 1998 , " ryan " was my first .  it's really hard to compare the two - they are so , so different - so i won't , beyond saying that spielberg's film had more of an impact on me .  however , the two are comparable from the standpoint of quality ( i can easily see why someone would " the thin red line " above " ryan ) .  i highly recommend both of them , and consider them to be the two best war movies ever made .  all in all , " the thin red line " is filmmaking of an incredibly high order .  it's slight faults are easily offset by the sheer brilliance of what is done right .  it's a real shame that it tanked at the box office - films this unconventional , powerful , and thought-provoking don't come along very often . 
neg@ long ago , films were constructed of strong dialogue , original characters , memorable plot points , and solid acting .  one of the best examples that hollywood now completely ignore these qualities is found in the new film where the heart is .  this opus about the power of love and the redemption of family follows the tragic , and i mean tragic , life of novalee nation ( natalie portman ) .  hitting the road with her hick , guitar-playing boyfriend in a rusted-out gm , novalee dreams of the blue skies of bakersfield and sipping chocolate milk beneath a plastic umbrella with her unborn baby , due in a month .  stopping off at a nearby wal-mart for a quick rest , novalee's boyfriend decides to take off and leaves her there .  novalee then decides to secretly hole up in the wal-mart ( because she's not the brightest bulb in the stagelights ) .  a wacky librarian ( keith david ) comes to her rescue when she goes into labor one night while she is camped in the outdoors section of the store .  then the she moves in with a family , befriends everyone in town -- including ashley judd's character ( who has five kids and still can work part-time as a nurse ) -- fights off religious freaks , survives a tornado , breaks the heart of the wacky librarian that saved her , receives an inheritance , builds a martha stewart-esque house , becomes an award-winning photographer , and manages to always look like she stepped out of a cosmo shoot , all while not once doing anything with her kid .  this film is terrible .  the directing is awful : it seems director matt williams had an index card with six angles written on it and used every one of them , over and over and over again .  we get pathetic and ugly acting by natalie portman , who can do good work .  a disjointed pacing of key scenes and a time structure so confusing that it would throw steve prefontaine off .  a subplot that actually validates the actions of the boyfriend who abandoned novalee in the wal-mart parking lot .  an embarrassing display of emotions by the characters , making the audience ill .  taking two great comedic screenwriters , babaloo mandel and lowell ganz , and forcing them to write drama on par with oprah's book club .  altogether , it has the feeling of being trapped at home , watching a very bad television mini-series and wishing it to end , only the remote is broken .  however , the main problem with the film is that it never answers the most poignant question brought up : where is the heart ?  no one ever seems to find it in this piece of junk . 
pos@ the grandfather of italian horror the late mario bava has credits in nearly 100 films and tv movies produced in italy between 1939 and his death in the early 80's .  more practiced as a cinematographer than a director , bava nonetheless sat in the director's chair for beyond the door ii , the project which turned out to be his last full-length feature film .  alongside the appalling zombie schlock of hacks like lucio fulci , beyond the door ii is simply a revelation .  in his day bava was considered by most to be no great filmmaker , yet here he fashioned one of the finest italian horror movies of the 1970's .   ( note that the film has no connection with the 1975 exorcist-rip off behind the door , but for some unexplained reason was given this related title for release in the usa and australia . )  this story focuses on dora , a women set upon by a malevolent spirit that channels itself through her young son marco .  the film opens with dora , her son and second husband bruno returning to a house by the sea that was the scene of her first husband's suicide and her subsequent trauma 7 years earlier .  they hope to put the past behind them , but as small accidents start to befall dora - usually while bruno is away on business - she starts to suspect that marco ( played with uncanny ability by 8 year old david colin jr . ) is somehow involved in the strange goings on .  to reveal any more of the story would be unfair .  suffice to say that this artfully paced study of a woman suffering a nervous breakdown offers an intriguing plot , loads of atmosphere and solid acting , though the dialogue is somewhat weakened by the dubbing into english .  bava coaches a surprisingly good performance from the usually wooden daria nicolodi , wife of famed italian horror director dario argento .  her character is invested with sufficient depth to allow the audience real empathy with dora's troubled soul .  the music by italian ensemble libra is also effective , mixing odd-sounding 70's rock with classic gothic piano sequences .  and there is at least one moment - brilliantly engineered by bava - that is guaranteed to lift you ten feet out of your chair .  yet for italian horror , the bloodletting here is surprisingly minimal .  lamberto bava and francesco barbieri's script is more concerned with deeper , psychological terrors , with themes of guilt and suffering , with the notion that what we sow will shall - somewhere , somehow - eventually reap .  scholars of the genre take note : beyond the door ii is stylish , chilling , and essential . 
neg@ one of the 90s' most unwelcome thriller trends returns from the grave : it's the " ___ from hell " movie !  starting in the early nineties , we were subjected to nearly every conceivable combination of relationships-from-hell !  there were boyfriends from hell , friendly neighborhood cops from hell , nannies from hell , and even secretaries from hell .  but hush has found an old standby that somehow was forgotten in the rush : the mother-in-law from hell ! ! ! ! !  the mother-in-law in question is martha , played by jessica lange .  she has been single-handedly running the family horse farm , kilronan .  her son , jackson ( johnathon schaech ) and his girlfriend , helen ( gwyneth paltrow ) , live in new york , and have no intention to move back down south to the rural kilronan .  but those intentions are about to change .  you see , martha lives by manipulation .  she has used it in years past to breed many championship horses .  now , she believes she can use it to breed herself a grandson .  though at first , helen finds martha charming , soon she is caught in the domineering martha's web of deception .  it's hard to understand why nobody ever wises up to martha' schemes .  as written , most of the characters in the film must be very slow witted .  but then , the film even treats the audience like idiots .  it tries to get away with things ( like leaving a critical piece of evidence in a rather unlikely place ) without even batting an eye .  then again an audience which accepts characters as shallow as these isn't one that's likely to question details .  jessica lange's martha is the only semi-developed character in the film , and she applies her talents to redeem it as much as she can .  a character that could have been simply awful is merely groan-worthy .  gwyneth paltrow doesn't have much to build upon , as helen's only character trait seems to be " daughter-in-law " .  still , she fares better than johnathon schaech , whose character is so nonexistent , he's inexplicably missing for much of the film .  still , there have been much worse " ____ from hell " films .  even with its paper-thin characters and ludicrous setups , hush manages to create a few thrills in a color-by-numbers fashion .  you know what's coming , but occasionally the film will deliver a shock or two .  the old formulas are around for a reason , but that doesn't mean they taste fresh . 
pos@ this is a film about secrets , some that are innocent like those of a cute little farm girl , frances boyd ( ashley ) .  others that are between a married couple that is impacting their relationship , like the problems of infertility affecting this upwardly mobile couple , geoffrey gaines ( stephen ramsey ) , the medical researcher working for a big corporation called fex and striving to get a patent for his experiment and become recognized in his field , and his artist wife , lillian ( miriam healy-louie ) , who reluctantly stands behind her husband suppressing her natural artistic tendencies in order to make the marriage work .  and , still other secrets that have a greater implication for the world and are deadly in a political sense , of science carried out by the big corporations like it was a business run for the bottom line .  receiving a summer grant to study " chemo-electric therapy , " geoffrey and his wife are hoping that a summer spent away from the intensity of the big city will bring back the romance that is dwindling from their marriage and that the casualness of the country atmosphere will give them more time together , as their three-year marriage has become shaky because he is more interested in his work than he is in her .  he has slyly managed to keep his work as secretive as possible by locking himself in the lab , which is off limits to her , as he secretly goes about conducting experiments on rats and mice , convincing her that what he is doing is to benefit humanity with possible new treatments and cures to illnesses .  his main argument is , that this is what the public wants , they don't want to hear about how some animals had to die because of these experiments , they just want the benefits of science .  that he is depicted as a monster creating another monster , much like frankenstein was created , is the argument skewed by the director against his bad science ( science as a business ) as opposed to the good science ( science that cares about the small farmer ) , which is represented by the handsome and almost perfect gentleman , alex vine ( david ) , a young ecologist who chooses to work in the field , trying to get the farmers to go back to organic farming .  he is hired by the university to monitor the dangers of pesticides and all the chemicals the farmer is almost forced to use to survive financially , as it is doing irreparable harm to him and the consumer because of all the health risks attached to this new way of farming , methods that have just come about in the last thirty- years and are being pushed by the big companies to enhance their profit margins .  the third view in all this is the artist's , represented by lillian , who points out that the artist's work is shown in public and scrutinized constantly , " why shouldn't the same be true of the scientist ? "  she argues that the artist is the watchdog for the public , questioning what is good or evil in society , something that bad science has completely ignored .  geoffrey , impatient to get ahead with his research , feels bogged down by the bureaucrats in his firm who fail to provide him with the three chimps he needs to experiment on , as he contacts one of the company's higher ups to argue his case , but decides he can't wait any longer for their help , so he sets an animal trap in the countryside and catches chester , the gorgeous pet dog of frances , a dog that means so much to her and her family because he saved her life .  while out in the field with the bloodied trapped dog already in the back seat of his car , he is spotted by alex and one of his co-workers , and nervously invites them to dinner with his wife , afraid that alex will spot what he is doing , as he rushes away from the area .  in the dinner scene that was , unfortunately , flatly done , but was nevertheless the heart of the film , as all the main characters get a chance to speak out from the point of view they represent as they eat meat , a means of getting protein that the radical scientists have eschewed since they became so politically correct about everything .  the scientists engage in a rational argument , highlighting their different points of view , while lillian reacts in an emotional way , siding mostly with david's view but coming at it from a much different angle .  it was as if the actors were puppets on strings that the director controlled and they just spewed out their generalized philosophies .  that the director's point of view is absolutely right , is beside the point .  the point is that the characters lost their humanity and became one-dimensional characters .  geoffrey was likened to a hideous monster , alex vine was likened to his last name , the one who holds fast to the ground ensuring that the plant has stability , while lillian was likened to the muse of poetry and art , the inspiration for goodness and beauty .  alex has been spending a lot of time together with lillian , as these two seem to share the same views and are physically attracted to each other , but when the time is ripe for an affair to take place between them , lillian changes her mind and decides not to go up to alex's apartment .  geoffrey is already suspicious of alex and considers him an enemy , and the marriage seems to be coming apart and all his cunning tricks to possess her are no longer working , as it is now impossible to see any good in him and there becomes no reason why she would remain with him .  the relationship has disintegrated way beyond the point of her just feeling lonely .  the dog is discovered by alex and her in a deplorable state after geoffrey is seen by them electrically shocking it , and mercifully the dog dies .  the only thing left for her to do is walk out of the marriage , but she also fails to respond to david's loving gesture for her to stay with him , instead opting to head back to the city .  the farmer whose dog was tortured to death comes into the scientist's lab and knocks him cold while he was in the middle of a phone conversation with one of the higher-ups who told him all the animals he needs are on the way .  what is progress ?  what can one expect out of life ?  is the small farmer about to become extinct ?  the answers to these questions can best be answered by either good science or art , which are both closely related to the american natives vision of a world entrusted to mankind so that he can respect it and take care of it and enrich it with his creations to benefit mankind in a peaceful way .  that this work fails to be subtle and polarizes opinions , leaving no room for deeper arguments , is the shame of this decent and smart film , that tried so hard to say what it felt it had to say but said it so loudly without trusting its audience to catch on to its message by not making everything seem so black and white .  no telling said a lot about the harmful trends it sees science going in ; it probably said too much and would have been better off if its vision was more poetical and less didactic .  there is something about listening to a lecture that turns off the rebel in me , as i don't like being hit in the head with the truth but prefer to have it presented in the form that leads to inspiration or told metaphorically .  that is not to say that i found the film without considerable merit , that inspite of its shortcomings , it was worth seeing because of its visual statements , though they were also not too subtle , they were at least effective in setting up the intense mood that the film needed to show that there is a mental war going on currently , of those who believe one way is right and others who differ with them , and that anyone who is neutral must be considered an enemy because of their indifference .  the stakes in this ecological struggle are that high .  perhaps the most powerful visual statement in the film , was the dead cow from pesticides shown in the opening scene .  it was the image that lillian spent her time painting all summer and had the same affect for her as did the animal faces in picasso's guernica had for him .  both artists envisioned the horrors that man could do against the world , and represented this unspoken pain on the faces of the animals so that anyone who cares to really see what is going on , will not mistake which side of the fence he or she should be on .  the pain that lillian feels , as she forgets about her desires to raise a family , and she stares at her painting of the cow and the song , " make the world go away " blares out from the background , after she has learned that frances' beautiful and loving dog has been brutalized by her monster of a husband , all in the name of science , had a raw power to it that personalizes the dangers of bad science .  perhaps , the most pertinent question the film asks , requires an answer that must be resolved by the farmers and the consumers who are most caught in the changing world and its new way of doing business , as the question becomes , can science be happily married with art ? 
neg@ in the continuation of warner brother's franchise , joel schumacher has successfully killed this cash cow .  what makes this film such a grand disappointment is the tremendous line up of talented people involved with the film .  avika goldsman's screenplay is such a cluttered mess that there is no suspense built from one scene to another .  this coming on the heals of such a marvelously written project as " the client " is such a shock that it gives rise to thoughts that the latter film was a fluke .  situations are developed and executed with no thought of reason other that to get the characters from one point to another .  this is most glaringly brought to point by the appearance of alicia silverstone's batgirl , who just happens to be alfred's niece .  the story of dr . victor freeze is told almost completely in dialogue as an afterthought .  while working on a cure for a tragic decease contracted by his wife , dr . freeze is injured during a cryogenic procedure , and becomes a man who can only survive in a sub zero environment .  now of course he has become a terrorist intent on turning the world into a frozen planet where only he can live .  now the logic of that little sub-plot escapes me .  if mr . freeze wanted to find a cure for his wife and bring her back from the brink of death , why would he want to have her live in a world with no warmth .  this is indeed a cold hearted man .  the development of poison ivy is no less contradictory .  she wants to breed a form of plant life that can defend itself like an animal .  she joins with mr . freeze in his plan to start a new ice age , destroying all animal life , therefore giving her plant creations no reason to have the defense mechanism she had been trying to breed into them .  the characters have no logic .  batman of course is no longer the dark knight of the earlier films .  now that he has an adoptive son in burt ward / robin , bruce wayne is trying to be a father figure , constantly spouting out homilies about family and relationships , while at the same time not really having any .  george clooney tries in vain to keep from rolling his eyes while reciting the dialogue given him .  to say that his performance is workman-like is to be generous .  his best performances are still on " e . r . " .  bruce wayne has the most unromantic evening with his girlfriend ( played by elle macpherson ) , that it brings into question bruce's latent homosexuality .  there is no spark and no passion ( as there was for nicole kidman's psychologist in " batman forever " ) between bruce and anyone other than alfred .  and even that relationship is very reserved .  robin comes off less charismatic that in the last film in the series .  now he's just a spoiled kid .  in " batman forever " , burt ward wanted to be batman's partner and friend .  now , robin is suffering from ego deficiency .  robin's attraction for poison ivy is not believable , except for a boy around the age of 15 .  his later flirtation with batgirl smacks of incest , even though they are not related in a traditional sense .  chris o'donnell , once considered a rising star , successfully burns up on reentry with this performance .  his robin needs nothing more than a good spanking .  the less said about alicia silverstone's performance the better .  this talented young actress reads her lines with all the aplomb of a dubbing actor for a godzilla film .  she was cast strictly for her commercial value and she knew it .  this brings us to the villains .  arnold scharzenegger walks through his part with all the concern of someone waiting for payday .  the most rediculous scene is during mr . freeze's imprisonment .  the guards are at least a foot taller that arnold and yet fall at his hand in one of the most unbelievable fights scenes caught on film .  it's almost as ludicrous as seeing michael jackson as a gang member .  umu thurman struts and coos her way through her part , showing a growing discomfort with her sex symbol status .  her poison ivy has all the come hither sex appeal of may west in " sextette " ( 1978 ) .  the only performances worthy of notice are pat hingle and michael gough .  these two seasoned veterans carry their scenes with a dignity sorely lacking from the rest of the film .  without going through the intricacies of the plot , there is one question that always comes to mind with this series ( except for the first " batman " ) , and that is how do these super villains manage to hire so many thugs only to abandon them at the final reel .  mr . freeze is introduced with a team of hockey playing hoodlums that seem to have stepped out of an old kiss music video .  every villain ( even the minor ones ) have to have a look , no one can be an individual with day glow paint on their face or some sort of elaborate costume .  with this film , warner brothers has succeeded in retrograding the series back to it's tv incarnation .  the only thing missing from the action scenes are the superimposed titles detailing the pows ! ,  gwaaaa's , and clang's associated with the old series .  you almost wonder if william dozier , producer of the tv series is collecting royalties from this film .  the special effects ( by john dykstra ) and production design ( by barbara ling ) are the primary stars of this film .  and it is a case of extravagance in the pursuit of nothing .  every set , from ivy's lair , the batcave , to freeze's hideout is set with enough neon and fiberglass to keep the epa in paperwork for years to come .  there is no one realistic set or set piece in the film .  everything is set for maximum exposure .  the special effects have that strange cartoon look that most rushed cgi effects have .  there are homage thrown in by dykstra and his team to gene warren and his work on " the time machine " ( the growing plant scene ) but these scenes are so wroth with glaring color and art that they are almost obscured .  joel schumacher has directed the film with no flair .  camera angles are poorly chosen rehashing set ups from the old tv series .  master shots pepper the action scenes , destroying any flow of kinetic quality they may have had .  mr . schumacher is a good director .  one just has to look back on the films " the lost boys " , " cousins " ( an underrated film ) and " the client " to know that .  but " batman and robin " comes off as a mated made for tv movie .  the film has no style of individuality .  it is the cinematic equivalent to jell-o , pretty to look at , but empty .  it is unfortunate that this film , even with it's surprisingly strong box office has succeeded in doing what warner's thought tim burton would do with the franchise .  kill it .  joel schumacher's " batman & robin " is loud , colorful , action packed , and ultimately . .  boring .  stars . 
pos@ eric rohmer's " pauline at the beach , " is one of those small , deliberately paced , but charming foreign films in which not much happens plot wise , but a lot happens to the characters emotionally .  the film takes place during a few weeks of august at the normandy coast , and centers on six different characters , primarily pauline ( amanda langlet ) , a wise beyond her years 15-year-old who has come to stay for the summer with her older cousin , marion ( arielle dombasle ) .  on the first day at the beach , marion runs into an old high school flame ( fedoore atkine ) , and although he wants to rekindle their relationship , she is more interested in an older , more seductive womanizer ( pascal greggory ) , who is also secretly having an affair with a candy vendor ( rosette ) .  while pauline watches as an outsider at what is happening between all of the adults , she forms a relationship of her own with a young teenage boy ( simon de la brosse ) .   " pauline at the beach , " is not a film in which big dramatic things occur , and there is not a clear-cut , tidy conclusion to the story .  instead , it is a picture that simply observes its characters in every day life , and the surprises come from little character details . the film is quite talky and slow moving , and so it is pretty safe to say it isn't for those who are only a fan of action movies , but is a treat for those viewers who often like to venture outside of the big-budget genre and see a good art film .  this is the first film by acclaimed director eric rohmer ( 1969's " my night at mauds , " and 1971's " claire's knee " ) that i have seen , but his direction is assured and intelligent , as is the screenplay , which he also wrote .   " pauline at the beach , " is a film worth seeing . 
neg@ in " twilight , " a ex-alcoholic , ex-cop , ex-husband , ex-private-eye , harry ross ( paul newman ) , works for a pair of aging hollywood actors , catherine ( susan sarandon ) and jack ames ( gene hackman ) .  jack is being blackmailed , and he asks harry to deliver the payoff .  instead of the blackmailers , harry finds a dying ex-cop ( m .  emmet walsh ) .  as more bodies begin to pile up , harry realizes that he will have to solve the disappearance of catherine's first husband twenty years earlier to find out who's willing to kill to keep that secret buried .  newman . sarandon .  hackman .  with an a-list cast of oscar laureates like that , " twilight " would seem very promising .  however , the script is tired and predictable .  it would serve well as a tv-movie-of-the-week , possibly with some 1970's detective hero reprising his role .  the appeal of the project for its stars and its director , robert benton , is nostalgia .   " twilight " wants very much to be a 1940's film noir with alan ladd or dick powell .  all of the standard tropes are here : a hard-boiled p . i .  among the rich and beautiful whose glamour hides sinister secrets , a femme fatale who tempts and confounds the hero , shadowy figures shooting from doorways , dead bodies confronting the hero at every turn , cops dogging his path and interfering with his investigation .  the script offers little originality , and co-authors benton and richard russo seem unaware that what was original in 1948 is a clich ? in 1998 .  elmer bernstein's score is hauntingly melodic and could have been drawn note-for-note from a vintage noir .  the lead actors try hard-none of the three has every made less than a full effort , even when burdened with a bad script .  they try to invest every line and gesture with meaning , and they create a convincing sense of the relationships between the main characters .  harry is fond of jack but is in love with catherine .  jack is dying of cancer and is jealous of harry's love for catherine .  catherine teases harry and enjoys his attention , but her real feelings are hidden beneath a carefully-maintained veneer .   " twilight " wants to be character-driven like " nobody's fool " ( also directed by benton , also starring newman , based on a novel by russo ) was , but the tired script gives the actors too little to work with .   " twilight " also squanders a fine supporting cast : stockard channing ( harry's friend on the police force ) , reese witherspoon ( jack & catherine's bratty kid ) , giancarlo esposito ( the humorous sidekick ) , john spencer ( harry's nemesis on the force ) , liev schreiber and margo martindale ( the blackmailers ) , and james garner ( a cop who bailed movie stars out of trouble ) . 
pos@ pollock starring ed harris , marcia gay harden , tom bower , jennifer connelly screenplay by barbara turner and susan j . emshwiller , based on the book " jackson pollock : an american saga " by steven naifeh and gregory white smith directed by ed harris   * * * for more film , dvd and books about movie reviews , plus annual coverage of the toronto international film festival , visit _film freak central_ - http : //filmfreakcentral . net  | now with search engine * * *   " how do you know when you're finished making love ? "  -jackson pollock to a life magazine reporter on recognizing when you've completed a painting  jackson pollock's " making love " quote is famous , but in practically the same breath , he said a more constructive thing , " it's like looking at a bed of flowers--tear your hair out over what it means . "  it took him sixteen words to do as whole dissertations have tried and failed : equate god and abstract art and offer a kind of backhanded comfort to those confused to the point of resentment by the concept .  the biopic _pollock_ , actor ed harris' directorial debut , reflects the second soundbite in how it accepts pollock's creations as part of the order of things , and should similarly disarm haters of fine art .  arguably more than any other living actor , harris , who also plays _pollock_ , embodies the archetypal working stiff , and his blue-collar demystification of pollock's labour-intensive art , both as performer and director , makes for unpretentious cinema .   ( from what i know of harris , he , like pollock , was not born gifted or lucky ; instead , a strong work ethic is the seed of his success . )  granted , it's possible that _pollock_ will alienate those same viewers perplexed by the imponderable " purpose " of pollock's splatter series : the common thread between them is a lack of editorializing .  the movie _pollock_ is all purposeful gazes and silent exchanges dotted by tantrums , but the motivations are left to our own perceptions .  and it is a sympathetic yet not altogether forgiving film , as illustrated by a disheartening conclusion .  _pollock_ encapsulates the period in which he fought a losing battle against personal demons ( alcoholism , depression , and the general attendant miseries of an artist ) while finding a place of subconscious expression .  a brief introduction to pollock's raging drunk side segues into his getting accosted by a fellow new york artist , lee krasner ( marcia gay harden , awarded a best supporting actress oscar for this brilliant portrayal ) , who works from the outside-in , pre-intellectualizing every stroke of her brush .  in a scene after they have moved in together and established adjoining studios , she asks what he hopes to achieve on his latest canvas , grilling him about the interplay of cubism and surrealism until he says , " you paint the fucking thing , " and leaves in a huff .  by the time they wed , she has become his de facto manager ; it is form marrying function and chaos marrying discipline , a most harmonious collision .   ( krasner denies him a baby , indicating that it would upset the balance . )  such a union is destined to implode , and i hope i'm not ruining the _pollock_ experience by saying that it does .  while it is never depicted as a very romantic matrimony to start--pollock and wife channel their passions elsewhere--their symbiosis leaves each other picked dry after several years , and it comes down to krasner suffering one of pollock's conniptions too many : " you are killing me !  you are killing me !  you are killing me ! "   ( aside : harris' own wife , amy madigan , is unrecognizable and exceptional as gallery diva peggy guggenheim . )  pollock himself moves on to dalliances with younger women like ruth klingman ( the scorching jennifer connelly ) , hoping , one supposes , to catch the revitalizing whiff of youth .  i love jackson pollock's stuff and i am enamoured of harris' _pollock_ as well .  it's scrappy and observant ; no coincidence that its minor failings are the occasional invasive flourish , such as jeff beal's hummable but no less lamentable score--i can't imagine that pollock , or anyone , would paint to this music , which puts filling soundtrack voids ahead of complementing the images .  one of my favourite sequences is an eerily quiet re-enactment of hans namuth shooting that famous pollock footage in east hampton , long island ; the mounting tension is almost comic , as namuth keeps interrupting pollock's process to reload his camera or take a dinner break .  a more seasoned director might've been too arrogant to admit that not all artists or mediums are created equal . 
neg@  " houston . we have a serious problem . "  after making " mission : impossible " , brian de palma has a lot to live up to .  by making an epic science fiction and inviting great cast and talented crew , he hopes to reach the modern audience .  and the possibilities are certainly there , but the result is a great disaster .  starting in a near future , with a prologue copied from " apollo 13 " , de palma slowly builds up his " story " .  the human race has already set foot on mars .  a research expedition has vanished without trace on the red planet and another one has been sent to find out what happened .  this is basically the whole plot .  so it's hard to imagine that it can be stretched to 2 hours .  but de palma manages to do that .  it is not a very good achievement .  as we follow this expedition to mars and watch them slowly float in space , the hardest thing to do is stay awake .  the film's major problem is that it tries to seem more clever than it is .  david mamet's dialogue , while trying to seem natural , is distant and simply fake .  de palma and mamet wanted to combine action with a thought provoking plot .  the result is more like an unsuccessful mutation of kubrick's " 2001 : a space odyssey " , " apollo 13 " and " godzilla " .  to make time pass , the creators have inserted several " refreshing " scientific details , that would not convince a half-crazed frog .  it consists of multiple copies and direct ripp-offs from several great science fiction films and stories .  when it finally presents an almost original idea , it falls flat because of its uncovered stupidity .  i can't even call this film predictable , since no one with a healthy imagination can come up with something like this .  sometimes it gets so cheesy , that you'll start laughing when you're supposed to cry and cry when you're supposed to laugh .  you'll see enormous sandstorms , hear mysterious sounds and , last but not least , on this " constantly surprising " tour you'll see -- an alien .  it's really hard to find comparisons to such an experience , and i know that i've never said that before ( i thought i never would ) , but " lost in space " is actually better .  that's an achievement in itself !  director brian de palma has stroke gold with " untouchables " that became an instant american classic .  it is for this film that he will be remembered , while all his other failures will be forgotten .  he'll live to fight another day !  i send the actors my condolences , since they truly do try to transform into their undeveloped and dull characters .  and both the cinematography , production design and art direction are very decent .  it is because of the achievement of 254 people , that i rate this film 2/10 .  unfortunately their hard work was in vain .  if you have problems with insomnia , i recommend you this film .  if you're not asleep within the first half hour , consult your doctor . 
pos@ albert brooks saves the day , just in the nick of time .  with a very poor summer for movies , brooks is just what audiences were looking for to cheer them up , and does so in a positive way .  while this may not be his finest work , " the muse " still shakes up some delightful humor .  in albert brook's latest comedy , he tells a story of a troubled screenwriter ( brooks ) who's losing his edge , as his business partners say .  in desperation , he goes to see his friend jack ( jeff bridges ) , who has been a very successful screenwriter in the past .  he asks jack for some help , and recieves word of a real life muse , that has helped him and many other directors throughout their career .  so brooks seeks the muse named sarah ( sharon stone ) , and is suckered into buying her expensive , food etc . as a sort of payment .  the real punch line however , doesn't come until the end .  it really makes you wonder , how screenwriters really get their ideas , could it simply be from a friend or a bum in the street ?  the idea itself is provoking and brooks does it in a hilarious manner .  speaking of brooks , he was absolutely hysterical as a screenwriter .  every time he graces the screen , i can't help but start laughing .  albert has a very unique sense of humor that makes him a very likeable character .  the real problem with the film lies with sharon stone .  she wasn't likeable at all .  brooks had the right idea with her occupation , but she never pulled through .  in a way , she drained energy from the once funny atmosphere and left it bleak .  luckily brooks could clean up the mess , and cover for stone's mishap .  it was a shame that the film went slightly downhill after her appearance , because " the muse " had the potential to a be a very authentic comedy .  on a brighter note , andie macdowell was also charming as brook's wife .  she is always a nice addition as a supporting actress , because she has that charisma that seems to complete the atmosphere to any film she's in .  the funniest moments in " the muse " in my opinion were the cameos by james cameron and martin scorsese .  i mean imagine , brooks seeing these big named directors in his back yard seeking sharon stone for advice , like it was something out of the ordinary .  it was just plain hilarious .  it just adds to the satire joke , of how directors get ideas .  brilliant move by brooks .  as i mentioned before , the film is a satire much like it's proceeder bowfinger , which came out a few weeks before .  unlike bowfinger , this is not a mean spirited film that's desperate for jokes , it's rather a witty and humorous look at hollywood .   " bowfinger " had it's moments , but had quite a few problems that were never worked out , but " the muse " still managed to keep the laughs despite a bit of a detour .  by the end of the film , you're glad to see a good hearty comedy come out of it .  for once i'm not fully disappointed , because the film didn't slow down , it kept moving , even with some flaws .  thumbs up to brooks for his brave effort .  i think he'll still manage to keep his edge around well into the future . 
neg@ i know there were times during this movie that i laughed pretty hard .  the problem is , i can't remember them as i write this review .  that's not a good sign .  in booty call , jamie foxx is bunz , a character whom i can't really describe , because i don't know that much about him .  i only know that he likes to shoot dice on the sidewalk , and that he doesn't like relationships , just " booty calls " at three in the morning ( no questions , no commitment ) .  bunz has a best friend named rushon ( tommy davidson ) , who seems to be bunz's direct opposite : on the straight and narrow , and currently in a long-term commitment ( a whole seven weeks , wow ! ) .  rushon wants to finally sleep with his girlfriend , nikki ( tamala jones ) , but for a reason which is not totally explained , it's going to happen after a double date with bunz and nikki's friend lysterine ( vivica a . fox ) , who have never met .  to make a long story short , the two couples pair off and spend the rest of the evening having their attempts to do the deed spoiled by nikki's obsession with safe sex .  first she wants condoms , so bunz and rushon go out and get them .  oh , no , they have to be latex , not lambskin .  back to the store .  now they've got to get dental dams , or there'll be no foreplay .  why are both couples stopped each time nikki makes a demand ?  nikki phones lysterine , who lives across the hall , and tells her she'd better be making these demands , too .  talk about coitus interruptus .  booty call is a film that does not know whether it wants to be a regular comedy or one of those over-the-top comedies .  the difference between the two is that in the latter , things constantly happen which are so far removed from reality .  in this category , for example , you have ace ventura : private eye on the mild side , and airplane !  at the extreme .  there are times during booty call where the film steps out of its shell and tries for this status , but then too often quickly retreats to the safety of convention .  it is disappointing , and even worse , distracting .  there are also instances where the screenplay by takashi bufford and bootsie parker ( are those real names ? )  does not live up to its potential , as jokes are left unexploited or even ruined by bad writing .  for instance , there is a scene where our main characters are in a chinese restaurant .  bunz goes up to an asian gangster and speaks to him in fluent cantonese , much to everyone's surprise .  however , when asked how he learned the language , he goes into this explanation of how he started picking up words from late-night kung-fu films , and soon gained mastery .  this negated the ludicrousness of the entire scene .  if , on the other hand , when asked how he learned to speak chinese , bunz simply replied with , " kung-fu movies , " and then moved on , the joke would have been much more effective .  this is because it would have been totally unbelievable , but funny because we know it is unbelievable .  by explaining the point and trying to make the ridiculous plausible , the film is not giving its viewers enough credit .  the inconsistency and uncertain believability unfortunately also raise other questions .  why are two such disparate people like bunz and rushon best friends ?  why do rushon and nikki fix up bunz and lysterine ?  if nikki is so obsessed with safe sex , why doesn't she have some condoms at her own apartment ?  these questions are not answered by the screenplay , but are overlooked for the sole reason of moving the plot forward .  a very noticeable quality of booty call is the prevalence of unnecessary foul language .  some movies use a lot of swear words , but use them under very justifiable circumstances , as when they are employed consistent with a character's pattern of speech .  other films , such as the recent jackie brown , use them in ways that almost parody themselves .  booty call just sticks them in to get laughs , and it doesn't work .  they stick out like sore thumbs because there is almost no reason to use them .  half of the scenes seem to occur for no reason .  the chinese restaurant , a holdup at a convenience store , and a trip to the hospital seem to have nothing to do with the story , and are in there for filler .  this is surprising , considering that the film is less than eighty minutes long .  it's too bad that the core of the film isn't much better , since it is comprised of sometimes funny , but forgettable dialog .  i refer you to the first paragraph of this review . 
pos@ i must admit i'm going to be a bit biased in my review of the new romantic comedy serendipity , because that also defines how i met my current girlfriend .  the magic and mystery of our fated encounter is also embodied in the quirkiness and freshness of the very funny and very romantic serendipity .  i am not a big fan of the romantic comedy genre , but something drew me to this film .  maybe it was the casting of the underrated jeremy piven in a supporting role , and the hilarious eugene levy .  maybe it was my hope that john cusack would get the redemption he justly deserves after such crap as high fidelity , con air , and pushing tin .  but maybe it was because i feel as giddy as a school kid right now with this whole romantic thing currently in my life .  the story of serendipity is simple .  two people , john trager ( john cusack ) and sara thomas ( kate beckinsale , looking ever so hot ) , have a chance encounter over a pair of gloves -- with buck henry smack dab in the middle .  charmed beyond repair , these two knuckleheads grab a sundae together at a caf ? called serendipity , talk about that irresponsible thing called fate and the avenues it leads people down , and spend a few hours at the local ice skating rink .  but with each of them already involved with other parties , sara has john write his name and number on a $5 bill and she writes her name and number on a copy of love in the time of cholera .  sara declares that if this " thing " -- let's just call it love -- is destined to happen , fate will bring them together in the future .  years later and on opposite coasts of america , john and sara -- both engaged but still unsure whether they have found their soul mates -- decide to seek each other out to rest their doubts .  what happens then is an enjoyable and often hilarious cat-and-mouse game with the fates - involving such items as mistaken identity , a graduate homage , john corbett as a freaky new age musician , and eugene levy as an irate and crazed salesman -- to find out if that " thing " was right after all .  fortunately , first-time screenwriter marc klein has sketched strong , well-rounded , characters to propel a predictable and corny narrative .  coupled with deft directing by michael chelsom ( director of the very unfunny town and country and the very funny funny bones ) and the use of time-lapse camera work to illustrate the passage of years -- the film comes off with genuine believability and sincerity .  both piven and molly shannon make nice sidekick characters  on the flipside , films such as you've got mail , made in heaven , and even high fidelity are the quiet inspirations for the film's main journey at hand .  but it's what happens to the unexpecting characters left behind in the romantic wake after john and sara find happiness this is the most unsettling part of the picture . 
neg@ two party guys bob their heads to haddaway's dance hit " what is love ? "  while getting themselves into trouble in nightclub after nightclub .  it's barely enough to sustain a three-minute _saturday_night_live_ skit , but _snl_ producer lorne michaels , _clueless_ creator amy heckerling , and paramount pictures saw something in the late night television institution's recurring " roxbury guys " sketch that would presumably make a good feature .  emphasis on the word " presumably . "  _a_night_at_the_roxbury_ takes an already-thin concept and tediously stretches it far beyond the breaking point--and that of viewers' patience levels .  the first five minutes or so of _roxbury_ play very much like one of the original " roxbury guys " skits .  with " what is love ? "  blaring on the soundtrack , the brotherly duo of doug and steve butabi ( chris kattan and will ferrell ) bob their heads , scope out " hotties " at clubs , and then bump a select few with violent pelvic thrusts .  there is one crucial difference , however--these guys speak .  that little fact has been used as justification for the film's existence , that the butabis' newfound capacity for speech would open up a whole new set of doors for the characters .  the doors opened by director john fortenberry and screenwriters steve koren , ferrell , and kattan are new , that's for sure , but they all lead to comic dead ends .  there is no story per se , only a loosely structured and linked series of subplots .  the brothers literally run into ( or , rather , get run into , as in by car ) richard grieco of _21_jump_street_ fame , and through him they gain entrance into the exclusive roxbury club .  there , they meet a hotshot club owner ( chazz palminteri , conspicuously uncredited--can you blame him ? ) , who takes an interest in an idea of theirs .  meanwhile , the bros' overbearing father ( dan hedaya ) wants them to stop clubbing .  when doug refuses and the dimwitted steve obeys his father , a rift is created between the two .  the narrative messiness of _roxbury_ would have been forgivable if all that went on were the slightest bit funny , but virtually none of it is .  the assembled press audience mostly sat stonily silent throughout the entire film , with the one big exception being a big laugh near the end .  alas , the joke--a rather lazy takeoff on _jerry_maguire_--will only strike a chord with people who have seen that film .  granted , a lot of people _have_ seen _jerry_maguire_ , but the fact that the film's best joke is completely dependent on one's familiarity with another film says a lot about _roxbury_'s lack of inspiration .  that lack of inspiration can be traced back to the insipid characters themselves .  like too many of the skits on the current incarnation of _saturday_night_live_ , " the roxbury guys " is a one-joke sketch that never once suggests that the characters have enough comic life in them to survive outside of the sketch context .  after watching one of the " roxbury " skits on snl , this is what you come away with from the characters : they bob their heads to " what is love ? " ,  bump unsuspecting women , and . . . that's all .  after watching _a_night_at_the_roxbury_ , you'll be left with exactly the same . 
pos@ anyone who saw alan rickman's finely-realized performances in truly madly deeply and sense and sensibility will be unsurprised that the actor-turned-director is a bit of a poet at heart .  however , for those who recall him only as the maniacal villain of die hard and robin hood : prince of thieves , this recognition may be something of a shock .  nevertheless , " poetic " is an excellent term to describe rickman's feature debut as a director , the winter guest .  the film has a simple , unhurried rhythm that uses all of the available elements to fashion a successful whole .  the result is an occasionally haunting , sometimes magical , and always insightful human drama .  the winter guest isn't about resolving plot threads and advancing a story line ; it's about exploring relationships and examining life in all of its stages .  the winter guest does not tell a traditional tale , nor does it ascribe to a conventional narrative structure ? there is no real beginning or end .  instead , we are given an opportunity to observe one day in the lives of eight humans .  they represent both sexes , multiple generations , and a variety of relationships ? male and female ; young , middle-aged , and elderly ; friends , would-be lovers , and kin .  we see expectations fulfilled and disappointed , emotional boundaries eroded , and truths unveiled .  there is comedy and tragedy .  most importantly , much of what transpires during the course of the winter guest will find an echo in our own lives ? in this fiction can be found much truth .  the setting is small town in scotland on the coldest day of the year .  it's so frigid that the sea has begun to freeze over .  the onshore wind cuts like a knife and snow blankets the beach , giving the terrain an alien appearance .  it is against this backdrop that the relationships of the film are captured .  there are four pairings , and , although there is some interaction between the different twosomes , the winter guest's focus is on the dynamics internal to each relationship .  the first , meatiest pairing is that of elspeth ( phylida law ) and her recently-widowed daughter , frances ( emma thompson ) .  these two have a stormy relationship .  they love each other deeply , but both are stubborn and willful , and neither is willing to admit that they need the other .  much of their interaction is argumentative , but , during the course of a long walk to the frozen shoreline , they come to an unspoken understanding of how much each means to the other .  frances' adult son , alex ( gary hollywood ) , is a lonely young man who has been caring for his mother since the death of his father .  on this day , he meets a girl , nita ( arlene cockburn ) , who has secretly been spying on him for weeks .  although their first encounter is antagonistic ( she throws a snowball at him ) , both quickly become aware of an undeniable attraction .  once they retire to a place where they can be alone , however , things don't go exactly as planned .  lily ( sheila reid ) and chloe ( sandra voe ) are a couple of old friends who are frequent funeral attendees .  death is a topic of endless fascination for them , perhaps because they are so close to it , and they spend their spare time scanning the obituaries , looking for the next funeral or cremation in the area .  it doesn't matter whether or not they knew the deceased .  it's the ceremony that they're interested in .  sam ( douglas murphy ) and tom ( sean biggerstaff ) , a pair of schoolboy chums , are spending this cold february day cutting classes and hanging out at the beach , horsing around , building a small fire for warmth , and walking on the frozen water .  unlike lily and chloe , these two have their entire lives ahead of them .  they are young enough to still believe in magic , but old enough to recognize that the process of crossing into adulthood robs life of the simple joy that only children can experience .  the acting is strong and believable .  the mixture of veteran performers and first-timers is effective , with the most successful choice being the casting of real-life mother and daughter phylida law and emma thompson in the most prominent roles .  there is a chemistry in their interaction that would be hard to replicate with two different , non-related actors .  and , of course , the physical resemblance makes it that much easier to accept elspeth and frances as parent and child .  the winter guest began its life as a stage play in 1995 , with rickman as the director .  four of the film's principals , phylida law , arlene cockburn , sheila reid , and sandra voe , appeared in the theatrical version before moving to the film .  unlike several recent motion pictures adapted from plays , the winter guest has been successfully opened up .  the rough , bleak scottish countryside becomes as much of a character as any of the eight humans .  in fact , considering how important the climate is to every relationship under rickman's microscope , it could be argued that this is the single most important element of the movie .  if you appreciate character studies , the winter guest is a solid effort with enough power to stay with you after you have left the theater . 
neg@ man , this was one wierd movie .  similar to conspiracy theory in that it couldn't decide which genre it is .  the first hour is your standard stock aliens clone , which nicely created an eerie atmosphere about the ship .  the last half hour ?  this was when the makers blew the script out the airlock and just decided - " screw it , let's just kill everybody " .  from then on - forget sci-fi . . . this  movie becomes 100% horror .  what really dissappointed me about this movie was that it tried to scare you in entirely the wrong way .  instead of using clever tricks or trying to build up to a scare - this movie just uses loud noises , sudden camera shifts and short quick bursts of gore . . . . . yawn . . . . everyone's  seen it all before and knows when to expect it .  the one thing that was done well was the lead up to finding out about what happened to the previous crew .  there are skeletons lying around mangled and mashed , but what did this ?  then finally after being painfully restored - the new crew views the video .  the acting isn't too bad at all . . . . . considering what the actors had to work with anyway , as there is no complex or interesting dialogue to speak of .  there was some very nice camerawork in certain sequences though , like when the hull near the bridge of the event horizon is breached and the camera pans back to follow specific objects as they bounce across the deck and are sucked out into space .  this movie could have been so much better .  it had a good experienced cast who deserved more to work with .  there was just nothing new here that any of us haven't seen before in aliens or hellraiser . 
pos@ [note : after claiming otherwise , my appetite was indeed whetted by kenneth branagh's hamlet to search out other attempts to translate shakespeare to film in hopes of finding a better mousetrap .  as it happens , it didn't take long . ]  is there a more romantic director than franco zeffirelli ?  known mainly to american audiences as the man behind 1968's romeo and juliet ( required viewing for many high schoolers , and as much as most ever learn of shakespeare ) , he is also a favorite at the metropolitan opera , where his achingly beautiful designs further the already lush emotion of many a puccini aria .  last year he gave us his beautifully realized version of jane eyre , one of the twin peaks ( with wuthering heights ) of romantic literature .  it might seem peculiar , then , that zeffirelli ever had an interest in translating hamlet for the screen .  at first blush , hamlet is far removed from romance .  the hero , though a prince , is depressed , conflicted and confused .  the ostensible love interest gets little screen time , and her scenes with her prince are usually as an object of mockery .  the plot is full of political intrigue and the players are as cursed as the house of atreus .  it is zeffirelli's genius , however , that he is able to expose the romantic core of hamlet and give the sometimes dry tale an emotional embrace .  in this italian master's hands , romance is everywhere -- in a son's worship of his father , in the bonds of deepest friendship , in the private thoughts of young lovers , even in the mystery of castles by the sea .  after all , the story hinges on a ghost , and what could be more romantic than that ?  what seemed like a cheap way to sell tickets at the time turned out to be one of the most romantic gestures of all , namely , hiring then-reigning hollywood hunk mel gibson to play the lead .  who could believe that the man who made his mark playing mad max and a " lethal weapon " ( in the series of the same name ) would have the skill to succeed in the most famous role in the english language ?  franco zeffirelli , that's who .  and it is apparent in every frame that his instinct was right on the money .  what gibson brings to the role is a naturalness and ease which makes the whole story meaningful , not to mention comprehensible .  his line readings sound spontaneous rather than rehearsed .  his movements and gestures ( excepting his sometimes too active eyes ) are totally in keeping with the character .  this is a hamlet whose pain we feel , whose struggle we empathize with , and whose death we mourn as sincerely as horatio at film's end .  glenn close , the other big name in the production , also does well by the script and satisfies as hamlet's mother , gertrude -- though i must confess i'm still trying to understand the character as written .   ( zeffirelli's incestuous interpretation of hamlet's relationship with his mother doesn't help . )  alan bates makes a believably evil claudius without resorting to the mannerisms of a hollywood heavy .  by and large the rest of the cast performs admirably and comfortably .  of special note are the cinematography by david watkin and the score by ennio morricone .  both support the realistic mood marvelously ( as do the sets and costumes ) , without any overstated effects that declare " this is important ; this is shakespeare ! "  i particularly appreciate that the words are often spoken without any music at all : the melody of a wonderfully wrought phrase is given its due .  perhaps it is difficult to call edited shakespeare " definitive . "  and there are certainly quite a few other filmed versions of hamlet that i have not seen .  but if you've ever felt the urge to overcome your fear of the bard , this hamlet is an excellent place to start . 
neg@ when respecting a director , you must also respect the fact that they are not perfect .  woody allen has made a couple less-than good films , and he's my favorite .  even martin scorsese hasn't had a perfect track record .  kevin smith , after a smashing debut with the classic " clerks " stooped as low to sell-out and make the dreadful " mallrats . "  i mean , so far the only director who's made several films , none of which have been bad is richard linklater ( " slacker , " " dazed and confused , " " before sunrise , " and " suburbia " . . . all  which were great ) .  now , i adore quentin tarantino .  his first two films were classic films , the second one being one of the greatest films of all time .  but 1995 just wasn't that good of a year for him .  he made way too many tv appearances .  he mispronounced jackie chan's name on the mtv movie awards .  and he made this film .   ( he was also awarded an oscar , so i guess that would be a grand exception ) .  robert rodriguez is also a great director ; not a brilliant one , but a cool one .  i've never seen an alexandre rockwell or allison anders film , so i can't comment on them .  but in this crap ensemble director's film , all four give pitiful efforts .  pitiful for any director , too .  now in all fairness , ensemble director pieces never really work out .  i've never seen all of " new york stories , " but have heard the first two films , by scorsese and francis ford coppola are crap ( i saw woody's one , which was hilarious but not totally up to par ) . but i will rate each film individually and then report back to you on the overal average score of the film .  exposition : a simple one - a bellhop , ted ( the totally overdone tim roth , who's a god and all , but not in this one , though he has a couple good moments ) is working on new year's eve for his first shift ( ! ! ! ) in an old fancy hotel .  he's the only one there ( again : ! ! ! ) and he only has a couple rooms ( yet again : ! ! ! ) .  the old bellhop ( the seemingly immortal marc lawrence - who hated pulp fiction actually ) hands over his cap to ted and he goes to his job happily .  as the night goes on , he becomes increasingly annoyed and hostile .  yea .   ( the short films are presented in order , btw ) :  the missing ingredient writer/director : allison anders starring : sammi davis , amanda decadenet , valeria golino , madonna , ione skye , lili taylor , alicia witt  this one starts it off horribly with no plot , no intrigue , and crap dialogue .  the situation is so terrible that it's physically painful to watch .  the plot has something to do with a coven of witches needing sperm to bring back a godess who is ( gasp ! )  stuck inside some object in their hotel room .  the witch that was supposed to bring it ( ione skye ) calls up ted and asks him if she can perform fellatio on him to get it .  yeah , that's what i said .  stupid plot , inane characters who aren't interesting at all , etc , etc , etc . the only good thing about this is it has a good cast which , in turn , it wastes pitifully .  not even actually funny for a second .  my rating ( out of 5 ) : no stars ! ! ! !  the wrong man writer/director : alexandre rockwell starring : david proval , jennifer beals and laurence bender  another bad little film with another stupid sex thing going on .  ted stumbles into the wrong room or something and gets in the middle of a couple ( david proval and jennifer beals in her attempt at " coming back " ) who are playing sex games .  ted tries to escape and we cheer him on so it will end soon .  but at least this has a bit of comedy in it , just not that much .  and david proval has never overacted as much .  and it's " pulp fiction " producer laurence bender who gets to puke from a window .  a masterpiece compared to the first one , but still . . .  the misbehavers writer/director : robert rodriguez starring : antonio banderes , tamlyn tomita , lana mckissack , danny verduzco , salma hayek  would a robert rodriguez film be the same without salma hayek's navel ?  nope .  luckily she's on the tv dancing so we get to see her .  surprisingly enough , when i read the screenplay ( about a year before actually seeing it ) , this one seemed to have the most potential .  it was fast-paced , funny , and well , funny .  but when i watched it , it seemed anti-climactic and only seemed to gain any momentum towards the end when everything happened at once .  antonio overacts nicely and the two kids ( lana and danny ) are funny .  but , as i said , it moves slowly and in that way , it's more painful than funny .  but the ending was stupid and funny at the same time .  oh !  the plot : antonio is a supposed gangster ( assumed , really ) who leaves his two troubling kids home while he and his wife ( tomita ) go out to get drunk at a new year's party .  antonio hires ted for a couple bucks to watch his kids all night long , but things go wrong . . . it  was okay .  the man from hollywood writer/director : quentin tarantino starring : quentin tarantino , bruce willis , paul calderon and jennifer beals ( again )  ironically , this one could be considered the best for a bad reason : it best represents what quentin has done with this film .  he plays chester , a spoiled brat actor or something who has just had a huge box-office hit on his hands and is living it up by playing an anti-climactic game from a hitchcock tv episode starring steve mcqueen and peter lorre where they gamble to see if one of them can get light from his lighter ten times in a row .  they're drunk and need sober but nervous ted to hold the cleaver and bring it down if the lighter doesn't light .  they also pay him a lot of cash .  this is so much exactly what this little film is about that it's campy .  tim roth was probably payed a lot of money to do this stupid part in this stupid film made by a bunch of people who are high on themselves 'cause they've had hits , major or minor .  it took quentin to realize that .  but the thing is , it doesn't seem like he realizes that .  if he did , i'd give this a good 3 stars .  but this sucked .  it was anti-climactic and the dialogue wasn't very good .  he starts off with a very long steadicam shot then goes to flashes .  that makes no sense .  it's cool for a while , then he makes it uneven .  it's long and it's just not very good .  hopefully quentin never repeats what he did with this one .  conclusion : what's the moral here ?  if you've made celebrated films , don't do an ensemble piece .  they should have re-watched " new york stories " and then stopped in their tracks .  none of these have any point to them and they're embarrassing to not only the writer/directors , but to the actors 'cause they're working with crap .  but i will forgive everyone involved and i especially look forward to quentin's next directing job ( even though he and rodriguez jumped back to the top immeadiately with the cool " from dusk till dawn , " which i found exhilerating ) .  i love quentin and i suppose it's good he made " the man from hollywood " because it makes him seem more realistic and not some " god of cinema . "  i seem to respect directors if they aren't " gods " and are actually human beings who make mistakes .   " the man from hollywood " is his big mistake and let's hope he doesn't return her continuously . 
pos@ copyright 1996 graeme huggan carry on henry is all about henry viii and his eight wives !  sid james plays henry , who no sooner has the film started , is getting rid of his present queen and hopes to find another one soon .  as part of his alliance with france , he requests the hand-in-marriage to the queen of normandy ( joan sims ) .  she comes to england in the hope of marrying henry but when he finds out that she loves garlic and has a reeking garlic breath , he is totally averse to the idea of marriage .  henry's court is very corrupt , with the cardinal ( terry scott ) trying to bribe cromwell ( kenneth williams ) and cromwell trying to bribe the king .  there is a state of crisis when the king puts marie the queen ( sims ) in the tower of london ready for execution .  the queen is pregnant but she has not liased with the king before , so fingers are pointed at sir roger de lodgerley played by charles hawtrey , who has a rather lecherous character to play this time .  the cardinal and cromwell decide to get a signed confession from sir roger by using all kinds of torture devices !  owing to circumstances , sir roger is sometimes needed to sign that he is the father and sometimes that he isn't .  this is because of renewed threats by the king of france ( peter gilmore ) to come over himself , which in the end he does .  by then , henry has found himself a new queen , played by none other than barbara windsor !  it looks like he has some explaining to do !  there are stand-out performances by sid james as henry , joan sims as marie , and terry scott in an unusual role as the cardinal .  also there are cameos from kenneth connor and peter butterworth , who plays barbara's father .  the set and costume design is first class and the overall production of this film is good .  there is even an early appearance from david prowse , who later became the green cross code man and darth vader .  the film does have it's downsides though , as it is getting pretty routine for the carry-on team to stage historical films and the inventive streak of the script seems to run out pretty quickly .  there is also the absence of hattie jacques and bernard bresslaw , who could have helped the film along .  however , overall the film is funny and there are plenty of laughs and saucy jokes , so that is why i mainly recommend it to carry on fans only , but there is enough humour in the film to make it worth anyone's while to sit down and watch it . 
neg@ this review contains spoilers , but believe me , i don't say anything you can't guess 10 minutes into the movie .  i * did * go into this one with high expectations .  i had been exposed to media reports that this film would signify a departure from the slasher flicks .  i sort of expected another exorcist or the shining .  i even put aside my general rule of not seeing this type of film .  boy , was i wrong !  another garbage slasher flick , the only difference being that * this * one has a story !  the story , you ask ?  well , a scumball buys a chinese puzzle from a guy in an arab souk .  he takes it home , somehow getting it past customs : - ) and starts fiddling with it in his attic .  lo and behold , after he takes it apart , three demons appear and start taking him apart , but with meat hooks .  when they're finished , his gizzards are hanging from the ceiling .  they botch up their cleanup job , however , and manage to leave his heart ( or some gland ; i didn't really recognize the organ ) under a floorboard .  the guy's brother and his brother's wife appear at the door soon after , and decide to move in .  they throw away scumball's belongings , and set up house .  turns out that wife is a bit of a nympho , and screwed around with scumball right before her marriage .  she starts having some wild hallucinations .  later , hubby spills some blood on the attic floorboards ( slow-mo special effects of the buckets of blood hitting the ground--all from the tiny cut on his hand ) .  said blood is eagerly sucked up by scumball's organ .  the organ grows into a thing that requires yet more blood in order to complete the regeneration into a really ugly thing .  it establishes mind contact with wife , who agrees to help him get more blood , because she really wants to be screwed again .  so , she helps him kill three businessmen .  scumball , at this time , gradually gets his strength back and grows all his organs back .  problem is , he doesn't have any skin , and even after three or four corpses , still doesn't get any skin .  he finally gets some , though , but strangely enough , he ends up looking like his brother .  guess they couldn't get the original actor back .  who knows .  scumball ( whose name is frank ) is not a nice guy .  he describes his torture by the demons fondly , as the " ultimate pleasure and pain , since at that level there is no difference between the two . "  somehow , i don't see getting torn apart by 90 fish- and meat-hooks a lot of fun .  this guy is * so * bad ( " how bad * is * he ? " ) ,   * so * bad that the * rats * cower in a corner in fear .  for good reason , too ; he crucifies two of them for fun , and carves a third while the nympho's horsing around with hubby .  anyway . hubby's daughter ( who , if course , is not * wife's * daughter ) starts to suspect something is wrong after she sees wife going into the attic with one of her johns and the ensuing screams .  the dumb bimbo meets scumball , and is not impressed .  she manages to escape with the chinese puzzle , and brings out the demons .  at any rate , the demons are pissed off that they screwed up their cleanup ; they're normally quite meticulous about that type of thing .  the story boils down to the demons trying to correct their mistake .  the demons are not , however , the good guys .  the dumb bimbo's the good guy .  she somehow not only gets them to take care of frank , but also banishes them to hell or oblivion , we're not too sure which .  not too shabby for someone with single-digit iq .  this is basically a " bad jinn " story .  it is an * awful * movie .  awful acting , bad focus in the photography , many scenes of skin being penetrated by meathooks , which is really unrealistic , and looks like the latex that it is .  continuity ?  who cares .  acting ?   * terrible * .  script ?  horrible .  sounds canned .  unrealistic .  story is so-so , but the impact is lost long , long before the film ends .  i do think the * rat * acting was quite good .  i have never seen rats look afraid .  they should get nominated for an award .  really good acting there , the best in the movie .   " the envelope for best furry rodent , please . . . "  a " " rating would be far too generous .  a " 1/10 " rating ( or -4 in the -4 to +4 rating system ) is far more accurate .  this movie is so bad that people in the audience were laughing , chortling at the bad acting and crummy dialog .  i can see this film turning into the next rocky horror picture show .  people were getting so fed up they were yelling warnings up to the characters on the screen .  had to have something to do .  dumb , dumb , dumb movie .  i was embarrassed that i spent money to see it .  it goes without saying that i disagree with the other reviews on the board that attempt to review the film for itself .  lots of slime and red-dyed corn syrup does not constitute " horror , " in my opinion . 
pos@ david mamet has long been my favorite screenwriter and director .  with his distinctive , more often than not ingenious dialogue , and his laid back style of direction nearly all of his movies are absolutely irresistible .  some of them tend to be thickly layered , deceptive productions that require the audience to look at the film in a less superficial manner than the plot seems to require in order to discern its concealed message , or sometimes even a concealed storyline .  and although the real plot in his new project the winslow boy is slightly more conspicuous than in some of his other endeavors , it is still a brilliantly complex , consistently riveting motion picture about honor , about sacrifice , and about the difference between what is commonly known as justice and what is right .  oh , and it's rated g .  incidentally , this is the first time that mamet has decided to adapt someone else's work ; namely a play by terrence rattigan , set in the 19th century .  he casts nigel hawthorne in the lead role as arthur winslow , a rich , aging man who finds out that his 14 year old son ronnie has been kicked out of the naval academy for allegedly stealing a 5 shilling postal note .   " did you do it ? " he asks his boy .   " no father , i didn't , " ronnie answers .  that's enough for arthur , who , with his oldest daughter ( rebecca pidgeon ) , immediately starts a crusade to bring his son's case to court .  they enlist the help of sir robert morton , a notorious attorney to help them achieve that formidably daunting task .  it all seems fairly frivolous , and no matter how you look at it , the winslow case is not the trial of the century .  but arthur is determined to keep his family's word clean and he is willing to go quite far to make sure of that .  soon enough , sir robert morton along with the rest of the country becomes equally wrapped up in the proceedings .  so do we .  all david mamet does for the script is tighten and hone the dialogue , but his style is still fairly apparent .  the characters still talk in his trademark staccatto lines and there is still tension present in conversations that no ordinary writer would be able to make tense .  but this is not mamet's norm , and it's refreshing to see mamet deviate from his world of crooks , gangsters as con men , wonderful as those films were .  nigel hawthorne's performance is nearly flawless .  his delivery is that of a dignified yet not pompous man who seems to be getting beaten at his own game .  we pity the man , but we also like him .  rebecca pidgeon , david mamet's wife , who gave a fairly awful performance in the spanish prisoner is at the top of her game here as arthur's oldest daughter , a flailing feminist who gives her all to the winslow case as a way for making up for her lack of success in the women's suffrage movement .  the winslow boy is a wonderful movie that avoids cliches such as a seemingly inevitable courtroom scene and shoots higher -- it wants to make a real impact rather than a phony one .  be honest : did you feel anything profound at or after the courtroom scenes in films like a time to kill ?  if you wanted to but didn't , this is a movie for you .  it is the epitome of subtlety : it's powerful without being too emotional , sad without even trying to be depressing .  david mamet can churn out some great scripts , but in this movie he proves to those who ever doubted it once and for all that he is a hell of a director too .  he is almost a national treasure .  his films deserve their own genre .   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
neg@ this well-conceived but ultra sugary coming-of-age film is not for everyone , and i include myself as one of those who found it too sappy for my digestion .  joseph cross ( joshua beal ) is a 10-year-old who is saddened by the recent loss of his grandfather ( loggia ) to bone marrow cancer .  loggia is wonderful in relating to the child in such a wholesome manner , it almost saves this film from drowning in syrup .  the beals are like a sitcom idyllic family , where everyone is just so nice and affluent , and properly religious without being fanatical .  the beals , the father ( denis leary ) and his wife ( dana delany ) , are both successful doctors ; julia stiles plays joshua's older sister , needling her younger brother but also showing that she really cares about him .  this is a family seemingly conceived in heaven , but living in south philadelphia , sending their children to a well-run catholic school .  joshua , the protagonist and the narrator of this yarn , is a handsome , sweet , intelligent , friendly , and endearing child , who does well in school , relates to the nuns and priests , and talks politely to his well-meaning parents .  all this mawkish interplay makes it almost too nauseating to watch .  the plot arises when joseph has a problem coping with the death of his beloved grandfather , who promised to be with him forever .  his answer is to search for god , pretty heady stuff for a youngster his age to do , but that's just the way it is , sometimes .  this search for god takes us nowhere because , as his friend david ( reifsnyder ) says , where can you look for him if he doesn't exist .  now , that's a smart kid .  but joseph looks for him in the usual places , and what better place than to start in the parochial school he attends .  one of his teachers is the kind-hearted sister terry ( rosie o'donnell ) , who wears a philly baseball hat and equates the jesus stories with baseball , making him the clean-up hitter , and in my opinion , if she wasn't a big tv star , would have a vocation as a parochial school teacher , she is that convincing .  throughout the film , she is saved from answering any tough ( sic ! )  question about god by the bell , as it rings to end the class .  nothing much happens in the search for god , there is no parody of the catholic school ; though a visiting cardinal is found by the boy not to be able to talk to god , but this is gentle stuff , no real criticism or search for god is attempted .  what comes next into play is some hollywood hokum , which is designed not to upset anyone , as joseph has a reassuring encounter with a real , live angel , a blond little boy his own age and dressed like him in the catholic school uniform who wears the innocuous smile of a goody-goody .  the film ends as this angel ( ! ! ! )  tells him his grandfather is all right .  his quest is ended , as apparently angels don't have wings and are approachable ; and god , well , . . .  maybe that's for another film down the road .  this part of the film was the final straw for me , i couldn't swallow any more goo .  as this film flopped commercially , his next one , the sixth sense , pared down the schmaltz and came up smelling like a rose .  though if you look through the cleverness of both scripts , this director is loaded with hokum , all he has learned how to do , is hide the hokum better .  well , god bless him , if he can do that .  this is a nice family picture and there is room for it in hollywood .  it's just too bad that it had nothing relevent or even truthful to say about death , children in a parochial elementary school , or for that matter , about god .  and that family of his , they're too good for words .  yet the film meant well and its benign message had its heart in the right place .  for those who want to see something soft , without a bite to it , this is the one . 
pos@ in arguably the most anticipated movie this century , george lucas has achieved a very mixed reaction to a sure blockbuster .  despite the fact the script and plot is a bit of a let down , the entire movie on the whole can be considered a milestone in technical excellence , in the sound and special effects department .  in terms of characters , by far the most outstanding and interesting is queen amidala ( natalie portman ) , whose mature performance far exceeds her tender 14 years of age .  she is one ? hot' babe who defines true ? woman leadership' .  she not only has a presence , but knows how to take command of the situation and save her planet from ruination .  no thanks to the jedi knights who although led by the force , lack leadership qualities in terms of thinking up a plan to do anything .  the young obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) who has a bad hair day in every scene , gets to kill a bad guy in the end , but lacks a love interest to make him a desirable sort of hero .  in fact all the jedi knight are a bit asexual - there must be something about the force which makes them all hermits and loners .  i mean it would be interesting to see yoda's girlfriend for a change , if he has one .  not much better is qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) who mostly broods , and has a better hair do than obi-wan , but only to find the young anakin skywalker and make the biggest mistake of his life .  also fascinating is george lucas ? metoclorian' theory , which claims that micro-organisms live within our cells and tie us to the fabric of the universe .  and it is the high concentrations of these organisms in an individual which make them particularly powerful in the force .  more humerous are the claims to the immaculate conception of darth vader , no doubt a concept stolen from the christian faith , except there will be no christmas to celebrate the birth of this dark emissary of the force .  overall an experience which is not to be missed because of the very fact that it's predecessor almost command a viewing of this inferior successor .  by all means not the pinnacle of the star wars phenomena but an adequate addition to the clan .  watch out for the next one , it should be one steamy encounter between queen amidala and anakin skywalker - who i believe should be portrayed by ? leonardo di caprio . 
neg@ are you like me ?  do you get annoyed seeing people talk on their cellulars in public places , shouting out loud , not giving a ratt's ass about anyone around them , and basically just wallowing in their own self-importance ?  well if you are , than you will most likely agree with my rating of this film since it basically features a trio of annoying ladies bickering away on the phone for an hour and a half . . . only to make up and hug in the end .  aaaaaaaahhhh . . .  plot : three grown-up sisters living their own separate lives , begin to re-establish their communication lines when their dear old dad falls ill .  critique : this would be a good movie if it wasn't for the fact that it's got very little to say , features uncaring people sharing annoying phone conversations , is chockfull of bad acting moments and provides less emotional satisfaction than any third-rate after-school special .  and i'm being nice !  how junk like this gets made is beyond me , but happy am i that the ephron sisters will finally be dealt a professional blow , considering the regurgitation level of their material had just about reached its limit .  the only true emotional moment demonstrated between meg ryan's character and her dad in this film is when he hugs her and swings her around at a christmas tree lot .  wow . . . how  deep .  of course , the same christmas tune that's played in every ephron flick chimes out in the background , while characters continue to build " bonds " among one another by making reference to old , quaint movies or movie stars .  stop me . . . i'm  gonna cry again !  this film is a mess .  the characters are boring and irritating to watch , the plot has something to do with three selfish sisters talking on the phone a whole lot , kind of liking their father ( but not really ) and then finally realizing the error of their ways , while sharing an " emotional " moment about movie stars from the 50s .  admittedly , i was not expecting much from a film whose television trailer features meg ryan screaming every two seconds and a big dog rolling its eyes , but even i was surprised at the level of ineptitude when it came to some of the acting efforts put forth in this film .  meg did fine as the sister who cries a lot , looking as adorable as ever , but someone please put lisa kudrow inside a permanent home of limited range , cause this woman basically is that very same character that she plays in every single movie/tv show that she's in .  enough already !  and diane keaton must've spent more time thinking about her role behind the camera in this one , cause her acting was amateurish at best .  neither one convinced in " emotional " scenes .  granted , they gave walter matthau the best lines in the film and that's probably where my rating of three points comes from .  all in all , this movie is not funny ( unless you're one to chuckle at train wrecks ) , provides zero drama ( unless you consider loud phone conversations moving ) , generates absolutely no emotion ( although i did tear up when meg hugged a coffee machine ) and ends on a perfectly pretentious note ( " oh no , please don't get any flour on my donna karan dress ! ) .  ugh .  i suggest that all ladies take their husbands/boyfriends to see this movie if they are pissed off at them about something !  that'll teach 'em to mess with you !  oh and incidentally , mrs . joblo also likened this movie to a piece of cow dung flailing in the wind , so there !  then again . . . maybe  you'll like it .   : ) 
pos@ the party is one of those classic slapstick comedies that will leave you , at times , cracking up .  the film takes place , for the most part , in real-time during an exclusive evening party that is attended only by the biggest names in hollywood .  hrundi v . bakshi , played very well by peter sellers , is a struggling actor who just came to america from his homeland , india .  hrundi tries out his acting talents , but it seems that he just isn't cut out for the job .  on the set of his current film that he stars in , hrundi seems to make everything go for the worse .  during the filming of this movie set in the 1800's , hrundi manages to annoy the director ( herbert ellis ) in any way he can .  this includes a pitiful acting job in many scenes , wearing an underwater watch in one scene , and accidentally detonating a massive set .  many of the hollywood producers and big names want hrundi out of the business forever .  and when the director makes a personal phone call to mr . clutterbuck ( j .  edward mckinley ) pleading for hrundi's ejection from hollywood , everything is pretty much over for hrundi .  clutterbuck writes his name down on a piece of paper to insure that hrundi will never again work in hollywood .  but when this piece of paper turns out to be the guest list for clutterbuck's exclusive party , hrundi is invited , and certain chaos is bound to occur .  of course , as predicted , hrundi causes lots of trouble .  each scene in which hrundi encounters a situation , usually one that he can't handle , is almost always very humorous .  and each scene with hrundi and the drunken waiter , who is alone hilarious , adds to the comedy in a great way .  the party can be compared to many other films of it's type , specifically the trio of naked gun movies and the airplane movies , but the party is a delightful movie that incorporates very well played out comedy into believable situations .  it also includes a number of memorable scenes ( can anyone say " birdy num-num " ? ) .  if you're in the mood for fun and enjoyable slapstick comedy , check out the party .  it's not going to be one of your all-time favorites , but if you enjoy this type of humor , you'll enjoy the party . 
neg@ phew , what a mess !  for his fifth collaboration with director rich- ard donner ( lethal weapon i-iii , maverick ) , mel gibson plays a motormouth , maybe mentally ill new york city cabbie , jerry , whose wild conspiracy theories are all but ignored by alice ( julia roberts , acting all serious ) , the justice department employee that he has a crush on .  she not interested , but another person is : a cia psychiatrist ( patrick stewart ) who promptly kidnaps him .  is one of jerry's conjectures correct ?   * is * the metal strip in the new $100 bill being used to track your movements ?  is oliver stone still alive , because he cut a deal with george bush to spread * dis * information ?  is this movie really about * any * of the crazed cabbie's theories ?  no , no , and no .  as it turns out , there's some other nonsense going on here , involving and revolving around jerry's background .   ( hint : pay attention to an early scene where jerry blacks out and flashes back , in quick succession , to images of an interrogation room , hypodermic needles , and ms . roberts herself . )  the * initial * premise is pretty good and is played , for a while , at a delightfully dizzying clip .  mel is wider-open that we've ever seen him and , if his character's relationship with roberts' initially strains credibility , their combined star power is blissfully intoxicating .   ( the highest wattage of the summer , perhaps ? )  even when the plot contrivances begin to intrude , the two remain a randy dandy screen pair .  there's a great scene in jerry's fortress , er , apartment , with alice trying to act casual as her hyperactive host tries to remember the combination to a locked coffee bean container .   ( which he stores in another locked con- tainer , his fridge . )  other hilarious moments , of which there are many , include a trio of memorable convention-breakers , where alice ditches a tail , jerry cold-cocks someone , and , later , eludes a foot pursuit , each in a uproariously unexpected fashion .   ( that's donner's own ladyhawke playing in the theater , btw . )  let's see , other pleasures include . . .  a brilliant title sequence , a jazzy score from carter burwell , and the worth-paying-to-see sight of roberts pumping lead into one bad guy and slamming another's head into a wall .  oh , pretty woman !  getting to the latter , however , requires slogging through an increasingly overburdened and ultimately unappealing story .  the last hour of conspiracy theory devolves from tolerable to torturous to almost unwatchable .  more stuff happens of the stupid shit variety than is worth mentioning here , except , perhaps , for a late sequence that has alice locating jerry in an abandoned wing of a mental hospital by hearing his voice carrying through the air ducts .  and here i thought it was wabbit season .  good god , who rewrites these movies ?  and do they arrive in nondescript black vehicles ? 
pos@ this summer , one of the most racially charged novels in john grisham's series , a time to kill , was made into a major motion picture .  on january 3 of this year , director rob reiner basically re-released the film under the title of ghosts of mississippi .  based on the true story of 1963 civil rights leader medgar evars' assassination , ghosts of mississippi revolves around the 25-year legal battle faced by myrlie evars ( whoopi goldberg , sister act ) and her quest to have her husband's obvious assassin and racist byron de la beckwith ( james woods , casino ) jailed .  so she turns to assistant district attorney and prosecutor bobby delaughter ( alec baldwin , heaven's prisoners ) to imprison the former kkk member .  ghosts sets its tone with an opening montage of images from african-american history , from slave-ship miseries to life in the racist south of the 1960's .  but all too soon , the white folks take over , intoning lines like " what's america got to do with anything ?  this is mississippi ! "  as beckwith , james woods , with his head larded with latex most of the time as an old man , teeters between portraying evil and its character .  meanwhile , goldberg turns in a very serious and weepy performance as the wife who wouldn't let her husband's death rest until she got the conviction .  both deserve serious oscar-consideration .  this brings us to the dull performance of baldwin .  let's face it , trying to match matthew mcconaughey's wonderful acting in a time to kill is basically impossible .  and baldwin is living proof of this , as no emotions could be felt .  it seemed as if he actually had to struggle to shed a single tear .  either poor acting or poor directing , but something definitely went wrong .  another strange mishap was the fact that goldberg's facial features didn't change , as she looked the same in the courtroom as she did holding her husband's dead body 25-years earlier .  yet woods' was plastered with enough make up to make him look like goldberg's father .  at least the make-up was realistic .  with some emotional moments in the poorly written script , ghosts of mississippi lacked in heart , when its predecessor , a time to kill , brought tears to everyone's eyes .  don't get me wrong , the movie wasn't all that bad , but if you've seen grisham's masterpiece , then don't expect this one to be an excellent film .   , 
neg@ susan granger's review of " american outlaws " ( warner bros . )  thomas edison's " the great train robbery " ( 1903 ) was the first western ever made and " jesse james under the black flag " ( 1923 ) first introduced the outlaw folk hero .  now , more than 20 similarly-themed pictures later , jesse james and his notorious gang of outlaws ride again in a banal mtv spin on an american legend .  the story begins as jesse ( charasmatic colin farrell ) and his brother frank ( gabriel macht ) , cole and scott younger ( scott caan , will mccormack ) and trusty comanche tom ( nathaniel arcand ) , after four years of fighting for the rebs in the civil war , return to liberty , missouri - only to discover union troops are occupying their hometown .  and an avaricious east coast railroad baron , thaddeus rains ( harris yulin ) , is forcing farmers to sell their land at less than true value , aided by allan pinkerton ( timothy dalton ) and his infamous detectives who , back then , were just thugs who provided security .  but when ma james ( kathy bates ) becomes one of their victims , jesse and the rest of the guys ( gregory smith , ty o'neal , joe stevens ) form the james-younger gang to wreak revenge by attacking the railroad's supply lines , sabotaging track and robbing the banks where the payroll is kept .  plus there's romance - between jesse and a spunky hometown gal , lee mimms ( ali larter ) .  working from a politically-correct , clich ? -drenched , sanitized and revisionist screenplay by roderick taylor and john rodgers , director les mayfield keeps the action fast-paced and goes for lightweight laughs when he can .  the choppy editing hurts but russell boyd's cinematography , luke reichle's designer duds and trevor rabin's music lend authenticity .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " american outlaws " is a galloping , formulaic 3 .  it's the wild west re-visited as a date movie . 
pos@ razor blade smile running as part of the vancouver international film festival played october 2nd and 4th , 1998 .  official release : halloween  reviewed by vince yim  `you think you know all about vampires . . . believe  me . . . you  know f * ck all . '  with these words , we are brought into the world of a sultry vampire seductress by the name of lilith silver ( played by eileen daly ) .  made into an immortal a century and a half ago by the sinister ethan blake , she continues to alleviate boredom with her state of being .  so , what's an undead girl to do , except squeeze into the tightest fitting clothes possible , get out her guns , seduce a few guys , and kill a few people for money and blood ?  with that out of the way , let me say this .  this film is bad .  this film is really , really bad .  yet somehow , it is strangely enjoyable .  with all the elements of a direct to video horror flick ? buxom babes , gore , cheesy dialogue , and bad acting ? any casual film viewer would be more inclined to spend their money on renting innocent blood or going to see blade .  still , it is considered to be one of the finest british vampire film .  agreed , it might be , but is far from being the best vampire flick ever .  period .  razor blade smile has some rather high production values , shown by the nice overall tone to the film .  the film is also a bit of a departure from popular vampire lore , with a vampire that can go out in broad daylight without disintegrating , doesn't sleep in a coffin ( but leaves one next to her computer ) , and sees religion as the `opium of the peoples' ( hence , immunity to crosses ) .  but aside from that , it doesn't stray too far away from horror film conventions .  that is , unless that is intentional .  razor blade smile literally goes for the throat , then pumps the wound full of processed cheese .  you can't help but laugh when a female vampire gets decapitated and her severed head goes flying into a puddle .  you'll laugh even harder at the hideously contrived situations ( to distract two female guards , lilith tosses a cellular phone towards them and dials the number ) .  you'll laugh the hardest when a murder witness recants the tale and suddenly starts sobbing uncontrollably .  and then , there's the sudden twist ending ( i have enough heart not to give it away ) .  the film refuses to take itself seriously , which is a good thing , as by the time lilith zips up her skin-tight body suit and then unzips it just to show the right amount of cleavage , you've most likely forgotten the main point of the story .  but in case you really care , she's been assigned to kill a bunch of people who belong to the so-called illuminati , and she's leaving a huge mess behind for the police to find .  as much as my criticisms , this movie works best as a guilty pleasure or as a film that you watch with your friends and within groups .  almost destined for cult-status , the film's campy , cheesy overtones actually work towards the film .  while this may not necessarily be the film you'd want to be seen watching by yourself , it makes for a fun time at the movies . 
neg@ lauded as a genius by many , stanley kubrick commands a superlative filmography that includes such critically-acclaimed films as " 2001 : a space odyssey , " " a clockwork orange , " " lolita , " and " dr .  strangelove , or : how i learned to stop worrying and love the bomb . "  now , sadly , he's added " eyes wide shut " to that impeccable body of work and his final film is the first and only blot on his near-flawless copybook .  kubrick , alas , should have quit while he was ahead .  this much-publicized psycho-sexual tease-a-thon , with its star billing of real-life marrieds tom cruise and nicole kidman , is nothing more than one long ( two-and-a-half hours long ) boring exercise that features kubrick operating with talent wide shut .  kubrick , faithless to arthur schnitzler's 1926 novella " dream story , " has confused eroticism with nudity .  he has confused intellectualism with talking slowly .  he has confused profundity with pretentiousness .  in addition , the director has made some strange casting choices , leaving sydney pollack in and leaving accomplished performers harvey keitel and jennifer jason leigh out .  pollack , the director of such box-office hits as " tootsie " and " out of africa , " is normally solid in his occasional acting stints but here he's miserably out of his depth . . .  and there isn't much depth to begin with !  unhappily , there's not likely to be a director's cut of this film to determine whether the decision to exorcise keitel and leigh was the right one .  in fact , with the exception of the stark black-and-white credits , snatches of baroque music on the soundtrack , and many , many grainy tracking shots down lavishly-decorated corridors , there's none of kubrick's trademark brilliance in this film .  it doesn't help that the story , as delivered , is ridiculous .  cruise and kidman , who bring little more than marital torpor to the project , play well-to-do new yorkers bill and alice harford .  he's a doctor and she's an unemployed art gallery director and they share a central park west address .  at an opulent party hosted by their friend victor ziegler ( pollack ) , alice gets a little tipsy and starts dancing with a jeremy irons-like hungarian , who's singularly determined to get her in the sack .  bill , too , is seen arm-in-arm with a couple of models before he's pulled away to deal with an overdoser .  back home , bill and alice smoke a little pot before alice's aggressive jealousy kicks in .  as retribution , she confesses to her husband that she once had deep feelings for a naval officer she eyeballed at a hotel where she and bill once stayed .  this hurtful admission sends bill into a tailspin ; he pounds the streets of the village in his heavy black overcoat struggling with black-and-white images of alice in the grip of a horny midshipman .  it's all way too much for him .  for revenge , bill almost has sex with a hooker .  he almost has feelings for a underage girl he sees in a costume store .  then he almost does the hooker's roommate .  and he's almost involved in an overblown rococo orgy when an old college chum of his tips him off to a mysterious , password-protected party where everyone wears masks and " the women are incredible " ( i . e . , naked ) .  this " erotic " set piece , a cult-ish bacchanal complete with chanting , incense , and lots of strategically-placed partygoers covering up the dirty , might impress the likes of hugh hefner , but it's a lot less shocking than it's intended to be .  what's the big deal ?  bill doesn't exactly * do * anything ( other than throw his money and credentials around ) , and alice only ever lusted in her heart .  whoop-dee-doo .  still , they make up at the same agonizingly slow pace--was kubrick , notorious for multiple takes , paying them at an hourly rate ?  even geniuses have their bad days .   " eyes wide shut " just happens to be kubrick's bad day , an unerotic , disappointing , and altogether pointless end to an otherwise memorable career . 
pos@ capsule : a rock and roll fable , indeed .  like a hubert selby , jr . novel filtered through equal parts damon runyan and bruce springsteen , and a ton of fun .  streets of fire bills itself as " a rock and roll fable " , and the description is perfect .  this is a stylish , great-looking , and breezily enjoyable movie that feels like a hubert selby , jr . , novel with a damon runyan rewrite , irected by bruce springsteen .  noir is one of the few truly american movie genres , aside from the hollywood musical and the western .  this is post-wwii brooklyn noir , for lack of a better label , with a generous injection of rock 'n roll and an all-around confrontational attitude .  it all works .  the plot is simplicity itself : rocker ellen aim ( diane lane ) is kidnapped by a vicious street gang , led by a bloodthirsty fellow named raven ( willem dafoe , very nasty ) .  her old soldier flame ( played by michael pare ) comes back into town to save her , but doesn't count on a whole bunch of things going askew .  that's about the entire plot , save for the spats with ellen's manager ( a hilarious rick moranis ) , an encounter with a doo-wop group that winds up becoming ellen's supporting act , and a whole gang of other fun little touches .  but in movies like this , when is the plot important ?  the movie is all style , all visuals and attitudes , quotable lines and posturing -- and it delivers all those things consistently and with great brio and pacing .  no surprise that it was directed by walter hill ( 48 hrs . ) , who understands this kind of macho romanticism perfectly , and has put together a movie that's a mixture of times and sensibilities , but perfectly unified in tone .  when was the last time you could say something like that about a movie , especially a movie where it seems like someone gets decked on the jaw ( * and * passes out ) every 2 . 63 minutes on cue ?  streets of fire isn't the greatest movie ever made , but it occupies a totally unique little niche , and enjoys the position it has .  anyone with a weakness for doo-wop , neon , motorcycles , rainy streets , the el , studebakers , gang pictures , lonely heroes , and a great-looking gal giving the microphone both lungs will eat this movie up .  i did . 
neg@ i have never seen a man so in love with himself than george lucas .  with the overt success of the three original star wars films , lucas has become , not necessarily a filmmaker , but the head cheeze at a huge toy company , with the phantom menace the new product on the shelve .  only this toy was made for $115 million , but every kid wants it , and , like all other expensive toys , falls apart within an hour after playing with it .  the product in question , star wars episode 1 : the phantom menace ( jeez ! ) , is pure and simple : its about the money , baby !  no one in their right mind would create such a fiasco if they knew it wouldn't make a ton of money before its fourth week of release .  i come to the sw franchise as a stranger , since i have absolutely no idea why the sw movies are so popular .  i find them rather boring and full of nothing but eye candy .  phantom menace is like the first sw , minus 10 .  nothing in the whole concept is remotely enjoyable .  even the special effects seem rather bland .  the story in this new one is a mindless mess . . . the  acting wooden . . . and the action sequences like something out of a video game .  sw : phantom menace is one of the worst films of the year so far .  with a title like sw e1 : tpm , lucas has one big head on those shoulders .  i thought chris carter did for releasing an x-files movie , although , that movie adaptation was an excellent way to spend two hours .  pm is one long headache . 
pos@ having not seen , " who framed roger rabbit " in over 10 years , and not remembering much besides that i liked it then , i decided to rent it recently .  watching it i was struck by just how brilliant a film it is .  aside from the fact that it's a milestone in animation in movies ( it's the first film to combine real actors and cartoon characters , have them interact , and make it convincingly real ) and a great entertainment it's also quite an effective comedy/mystery .  while the plot may be somewhat familiar the characters are original , especially baby herman , and watching them together is a lot of fun .  the story begins in hollywood in 1947 .  cartoon star roger rabbit is blowing takes and having trouble keeping his mind on work , so hard-boiled private detective eddie valiant ( bob hoskins ) is called in by studio head r . k .  maroon ( alan tilvern ) to try to help get roger's mind back on work .  maroon thinks that roger's wife , jessica's , possible unfaithfulness to him might be the cause of distraction and tells eddie to get some photos of her in the act before it costs him any more money in reshoots .  valiant takes some photos of jessica playing , `patty cake' with marvin acme ( stubby kaye ) , the owner of toontown ( where all of the cartoon characters live ) and takes them to maroon .  upon seeing them , roger is emotionally destroyed and soon after acme is found dead and roger rabbit is the prime suspect .  the rest of the movie follows valiant and roger as they run around town ( and eventually toontown ) trying to clear roger's good name .  along the way they meet judge doom ( christopher lloyd ) a judge-jury-and executioner type who's out to get roger and has discovered the one and only way to kill a `toon . '  `who framed roger rabbit' won 4 academy awards including a special achievement award for richard williams for animation direction and creation of the cartoon characters ( williams and his teams went through the film frame by frame and hand drew the cartoon characters in ) .  director robert zemekis must be given an equal amount of praise for overseeing the entire production , which included hundreds of animators .  also bob hoskins' performance should be credited .  he , in addition to the rest of the human cast , finds the right note to play in all of the scenes with his cartoon co-stars .  according to the internet movie database , hoskins studied his young daughter to learn how to act with imaginary characters and i guess his hard work paid off .  `who framed roger rabbit' is a rare film .  one that not only presented a great challenge to the filmmakers but one that can be enjoyed by the whole family ( although some very young viewers may be a little scared by judge doom ) .  do yourself a favor and rent it , `p-p-p-p-please . " 
neg@ i'll be the first to admit it .  when you mention the book great expectations , i immediately begin experiencing flashbacks to junior high english class , where i was confronted with a torturously boring book filled with people with such nonsensical names as pip and magwitch .  yes , it's a classic of literature , but it was a rather dry one , shoved down my young throat like a spoonful of bitter medicine .  certainly , the experience wasn't truly that bad , but , to quote ethan hawke in the latest movie adaptation of said book , " i'm not going to tell the story the way it happened . . . i'll  gonna tell it the way i remember it . "  anyway , to return from nostalgia lane , and get back to the present , hollywood , in it's trendy attempt to modernize the classics , now presents an updated film version of great expectations .  instead of pip , this time the central character is named finn ( played as a boy by jeremy kissner , and by ethan hawke as an adult ) .  finn is an orphan being raised by his unfaithful sister maggie , or should that be mrs . joe , ( kim dickens ) , and her boorish fisherman husband , joe ( chris cooper ) .  the setting is the florida coast during the mid-70s .  finn is a blooming artist , and spends his time running around the beach drawing fish ( one of his two favorite subjects ) .  during one of these escapades , he literally stumbles upon an escaped criminal ( robert deniro ) .  borrowing a page from the superhuman max cady , deniro's criminal has a seemingly limitless lung capacity , and favors hiding on the ocean floor .  ok . . . maybe  that's an exaggeration , but he certainly beats any of houdini's records in the opening scenes of the film .  and that's nothing next to the fuel efficiency of finn's motorboat , but i digress .  anyway , finn does the convict a good deed , just to show that he's a really swell guy .  and then the plot moves on .  enter miss havisham . . . or  ms . dinsmoor here ( anne bancroft ) .  abandoned at the altar some 26 years ago , ms . dinsmoor is the epitome of the crazy rich old maid .  with bizarre clothing , eccentric mannerisms and a few pounds of makeup , anne bancroft seriously overacts in this role .  although she ends up nowhere near a believable character , she does add some humor to the film .  joe is hired to help with the gardening at her unkempt manner , but the insane ms . dinsmoor soon hires finn to be a plaything for her niece , estella ( raquel beaudene as a young girl , gwyneth paltrow as an adult ) .  for no apparent reason , other than to provide the main plot of the film , finn is instantly stricken for the estella .  perhaps it's her snooty attitude or her utter disdain for his person , or maybe finn has simply never met a girl before .  in any case , neither as children nor adults , chemistry simply doesn't exist between the two , and yet finn spends the remainder of the film pining for her .  even when , as an adult , finn arrives in new york at the behest of a mysterious benefactor , reacquaints himself with estella , and draws her portrait in the nude , there's nothing .  in fact , there is more sexual tension between helen hunt and greg kinnear's gay artist during a similar scene in as good as it gets .  at this point , the audience has grown as cold and detached as estella's character , and couldn't care less about the two characters .  the bulk of the blame here falls upon gwyneth paltrow .  she fails to imbue estella , a remote character in the book , with even the vaguest traces of humanity .  there's obviously something wrong when , watching the film , you're more interested with how big her nose looks in silhouette than you are about her character .  without a strong estella , finn's obsession seems baseless .  you wish he would just stop whining , let estella marry his rival , walter plane ( an oddly subdued hank azaria ) , and just get on with his life .  in fact , the two relationships that work in the film are purely tangential to the main plot .  finn's relationship with his brother-in-law , joe , is interesting , if a bit stereotypical .  what's more fascinating are his interactions with deniro .  although it's only a bit part , it goes to show how much vitality a strong actor can create .  it is apparent that director alfonso cuarsn put a lot of work in creating the imagery of the film .  some of the shots work , but others are too obviously staged ( for example , both of the water fountain scenes ) to have any impact .  finn's art ( actually the creations of italian painter , francesco clemente ) is used throughout the film , but it mostly fails to have the intended effect .  we never see why finn would generate this style of art , which is simultaneously crude and insightful .  as a result , it ends up as distant as the rest of the film .  modernizing the classics is currently in vogue ( just see william shakespeare's romeo+juliet ) .  simply update the action to a modern setting , and apply plenty of modern rock .  but such adornments do little to perk up great expectations .  as much as i dreaded the novel when i first read it , you'd probably be better off suffering though a reading than watching this romanceless film . 
pos@ in these days of overlong movies ( meet joe black , the thin red line , the mask of zorro ) it is a shame that films like waking ned devine can't be longer than a paltry 90 minutes .  this is just a cute movie , even through its mildly risque subject matter .  old friends jackie ( bannen ) and michael ( kelley ) try to find the lottery winner ( they deduce must live in their dinky town of about 60 ) so that they might kiss up to him and share the winnings .  through process of elimination , they find that it must be lovable old ned devine , who they find sitting in front of his tv , clutching the winning lottery ticket in his cold dead hand .  what results is thuroughly amusing , as jackie tries to convince his wife that not claiming it would be wrong , and that they could really benefit .  after all , old ned won't miss it .  rather than divulge the later twists and turns , i'll stop here merely pointing out that jackie and michael get into all sorts of trouble in their little sleepy irish villiage .  bannen and kelly are a perfect pair .  one slightly stout , the other as thin as a rail .  both getting on in years , they make such a cute pair of old codgers .  waking ned devine may even be seen as a " full monty " for the geriatric set , especially since kelly gets buff-o for one amusing scene .  waking ned devine is by no means perfect , but it is so sincere and touching that it looks so much better than most films .  the performances by everyone in the town are great , particularly the two leads .  there is one twist at the end which i find unnecessary , but it hardly ruins the picture .  writer/director kirk jones should be held up as an example to all those hollywood screenwriters .  scripts as creative and endearing as this should be the norm , not the exception .  perhaps it makes us appreciate this wonderful film even more .  had i held off on my year's best/worst list for another day , waking ned devine ( officially released in late november of 98 ) surely would have graced the short group of the year's finest films .  it is light , but thought provoking and sweet .  i can't think of anyone who shouldn't see ( or wouldn't enjoy ) this film . 
neg@ plot : upon the realization that they are failing all of their classes , two roommates try to find a third roomie who will kill himself , since the school's charter automatically grants top grades to the roommates of any student who succeeds in suicide .  critique : despite this film's interesting premise and dark subject matter , this movie sucks because it is unfunny , boring , and presents us with one of tom everett scott's worst acting performances .  add that to a completely unsuccessful romance element , many lame and corny jokes , a long wait for the setup , and an ending that takes all the blackness out of this " black comedy " ( if you're gonna create a black comedy , don't chicken out in the end-see very bad things ( 8/10 ) for a perfect example ) , and you've got yourself a trite mtv creation worthy of its own subject matter .  i barely laughed at any gags , found the bong element contrived and repetitive , and was horrified not to find any gratuitous nudity tossed anywhere in this movie ( if you're gonna make a bad college comedy , at least slap in some free t&a shots for the kids : ) .  this one's not even worth the rental , fellas .  skip it altogether !  little known facts about this film and its stars : during auditions for that thing you do ! , tom everett scott's first feature film role , director tom hanks was opposed to hiring tom because of the fact that scott could've passed for hanks 15 years ago .  it wasn't until hanks' wife rita wilson saw the audition tape , and decided he was cute , that hanks decided to risk hiring scott .  the actor who played scott cooper in this film , mark-paul gosselaar , is best known for having played the character of zack morris on tv's " saved by the bell " .  his parents are dutch and named hans and paula .  and who would've guessed that this is director alan cohn's first shot at directing a feature film ? 
pos@ the coen brothers are back again , this time with homer's " odyssey " as the backdrop in their tale of three fugitives from a mississippi chain gang who trek across the south to find a secret treasure in " o brother , where art thou ? "  right for the beginning of " o brother " the coens grab your attention with a chain gang of prison inmates breaking rocks along the road in unison to a work song .  the camera flows around the hard toiling men , giving a visually exciting symmetry to the scene that ends with our three heroes - ulysses everett mcgill ( george clooney ) , delmar ( tim blake nelson ) and pete ( john turturro ) - escaping across a cotton field .  it is the beginning of a journey that takes on different meanings and urgencies to each member of the trio .  a strong suite , as always with the coen brothers , is the depth of character of the folks they create in their films .  their characters are goofy and comical , like nicolas cage in " raising arizona " ; or , dramatic , as albert finney and john turturro in " miller's crossing " ; and , even a mix of the two with frances mcdormand in " fargo . "  in all cases , and in " o brother , " too , the characters populating their films are three-dimensional people .  ulysses everett is a handsome , hair-obsessed petty criminal with a silver tongue and not a lot in the brains department .  but , he seems like a genius when compared to the simple , sweet delmar and the maladjusted pete , who follow their self appointed leader to a promised treasure of $1 . 2 million .  their odyssey takes on the mystical proportions of homer's original material as they meet all manner of people along the way , including those dangerous sirens who beckon them onto symbolically rocky shoals and a cyclops who beats them and takes all their money .  there is magic , too , when delmar believes that pete was turned into a horny toad by the sirens .  the story meanders through the different vignettes of the boys' adventures , giving the flick a choppy , episodic feel that disrupts the overall flow .  some of the interludes are an epiphany , though .  the trio becomes a quartet when they pick up guitar-playing tommy johnson ( chris thomas king ) and visit a radio station in the middle of nowhere , run by its blind owner ( stephen root ) .  they become the soggy bottom boys for the sightless radio station man and , without their knowledge , are recorded as they sing the traditional tune , " i am a man of constant sorrow . "  it is a wonderful moment of moviemaking and gives us , in my mind , the best movie song of the year .  contrasting this and other wonderful moments ( the sexy seduction by the sirens comes to mind ) are some pretentious bits that detract from the overall quality of " o brother . "  in particular , near the end , is a scene where ulysses , delmar and pete crash a ku klux klan rally to save tommy from being lynched .  the scene is overblown and flashy and reeks of " the wizard of oz . "  they don't say " lions and tigers and bears , oh my ! "  and there's no dorothy , but it is the land of oz we're seeing here .  the highs and lows of the story flow are tempered by fine acting on several levels .  george clooney is funny , charming , a little dumb and one of the handsomest actors in the business today .  he has the charm of a 30's movie idol and is able to put himself into silly situations with dignity .  ulysses has an ongoing obsession with his hair , risking life and limb to get a particular brand of pomade and a supply of hairnets .  his vanity will come to plague him as it would any mystical hero-wanderer .  while clooney is the name draw for " o brother , " the show stealer is tim blake nelson as delmar .  the heretofore unknown nelson is terrific as the simple convict who , at one point , hears the word of the lord and joins members of a church congregation in their mass baptism .  delmar is saved and dedicates his life to doing good and provides a richness to his simple character that makes him shine .  the taciturn pete , as played by longtime coen collaborator turturro , is the sullen member of the trio and gives them the necessary angst .  all together , the tuneful triumvirate is a mix of the three stooges and the three musketeers as they prove to be buffoons , albeit brave ones .  the colorful supporting cast is rampant with homerian characters to meet and get to know along the way of the boys' odyssey .  charles durning appears as incumbent governor pappy o'daniel , who keeps crossing paths with them in his bid for re-election .  john goodman is wicked as the one-eyed bible salesman and con artist , big dan teague .  michael badalucco is manic and outrageous as outlaw and bank robber extraordinary , george " babyface " nelson .  stephen root is amusing as the blind dj , rep'ing one of the many references to the sightless that abound in the film in mystical ways .  holly hunter is wasted in the small role as ulysses' estranged wife , penny ( and the real reason for this adventure , not secret treasure ) .  techs are , as expected in a coen brothers venture , first class .  cinematographer roger deakins , who has worked on five previous coen films , captures the sultry atmosphere of the south .  the photography complements the lush period production and costume provided by dennis gassner and mary zophres , respectively .  once again , roderick jaynes - the alter ego of ethan and joel coen - is on board as editor .  the high points outweigh the low through most of " o brother , where art thou ? "  with particular praise for the wonderful selection of period and traditional music .  i give it a b . 
neg@ contrary to popular belief , not every single foregin film released to an american market is a masterpiece .  some of them aren't even good .  some examples of this principle are the aboslutely dreadful " un indien dans la ville " ( presented as " little indian , big city , " and remade into that crap tim allen flick , " jungle2jungle " ) , and this .  what could have been a clever little sex comedy turns into one mess of a french flick .   " french twist " ( the " cool " american title , not the real one , which was " gazon maudit , " literally meaning " twisted ground , " or something like that ) deals with a married couple with kids , and the intrusion of a stranger who kinda screws things up for them .  loli and alain chabat ( victoria abril and alain chabat ) are not exactly happily married .  always on business trips , alain chabat more than once cheats on her , and she eventually finds out .  and one day , she meets a butch mechanic , marijo ( the co-writer/director josiane balasko ) , and they two kinda hit it off .  so she decides she will get back at alain chabat by doing the obvious : sleeping with marijo .  but she soons starts to not only fall in love with marijo , but she's also realizes she's still in love with alain chabat .  so , of course , she does the obvious from that : she decides to keep them both .  she'll be ( and sleep ) with each of them for 3 days each , then on sunday , she'll rest by herself .  after all , she needs it if she's gonna have more sex than sylvia kristel .  the film goes on for over an hour and a half , through stupidity after stupidity , moronic twist after moronic twist , and soon there's the little ironic ( ! ! ! )  ending .  i know it's a completely different culture , and i'm quite familiar with the french and their cinema , but this is just bad .  none of the characters are more intelligent than peter stormare in " fargo " ( a movie where stupid characters were backed up to make a point ) , and any action they do is pretty much just to get a hopeful chuckle from the audience .  what's shocking is this was not only one of france's biggest hits , but it was nominated for a lot of cesars ( french equivalent of oscars ) .  the writing and directing is really the big problem with it .  josiane balasko does a good acting job with her role , but her little sex comedy isn't very humerous , entertaining , or even deep at all .  even woody allen's not-very-good " a midsummer night's sex comedy " is intelligent , well-written , and possesses some depth .  this is shallow , unfunny , and pretty annoying to watch .  the film moves at the pace of a snail , and is damn-near painful to watch .  thank god for the fast forward button .  the acting , however , isn't bad at all .  the actors do the best they can with the bad material , and victoria abril is pretty likable despite the script ( and the fact that she's stupid enough to try to divide herself over two people when she has kids ) .  and alain chabat has some funny moments as the neurotic husband .  but " french twist " is just pretty lame .  it's not overly horrible , and has a couple very , very , very brief moments .  but it's just a really crap film , and an example of an ill-advised distribution of a foreign film . 
pos@ well i'll be damned , what a most excellent surprise .  not to be confused with the campy and far inferior 1988 remake starring ex-porn star traci lords , this more recent attempt at remaking the 1950's drive-in schlockfest not of this earth is a real gem and was quite possibly the best sci-fi flick of 1995 .  once again , b-movie king roger corman is behind this effort ( he directed the original ) but this time he appears only in the role of executive producer .  the rest of the crew and cast are relative unknowns .  it seems criminal that the film was released direct to video in most countries , because it's an absolute must-see for sci-fi fans and a treat for anyone who enjoys decently acted and written thrillers with a kooky bent .  the plot in brief .  paul johnson ( michael york ) is an alien posing as an eccentric millionaire who , though needing to kill people to live , is visiting earth for far from selfish reasons .  his race is dying of a mysterious blood disease and he desperately is trying to find a cure , the key of which lies in the blood of humans .  he visits and soon puts under his spell the respected blood physician dr . rochelle , whom he hypnotises into doing secret research on his behalf .  he also has the doctor convince smart and sexy nurse amanda ( elizabeth barondes ) to move in with johnson as his private nurse so as to give him the blood transfusions which he constantly requires .  but before long , amanda and johnson's sleazy chauffeur release that johnson is a lot more than just eccentric .  i must admit , my first glimpse of the video cover for not of this earth was not encouraging .  british actor michael york has appeared in some real stinkers in past few decades , a far cry from the quality fare of his younger days such as caberat ( 1972 ) .  but his performance here as an alien in human disguise is nothing short of outstanding .  the weird twitches and bizarre modes of speech , the dapper clothes and cool spectacles , the unexpected pathos which he invests in his character .  york is by turns hilarious , menacing and tragic .  this is a tour-de-force and quite simply the best performance i've seen from him .  and while obviously made on a modest budget , the film boasts enormous strengths .  the casting is spot on , the acting is terrific and the script is intelligent , witty and consistently engaging , cleverly updating the original .  the balance of horror and humour is just about perfect , a marked contrast to the earlier remake from 1988 .  the film doesn't drag for a second of its 90 minute running time thanks to tight editing and the sure hand of little-known director terrance h . winkless .  and it doesn't matter one bit that the special effects are cheesy - this is schlock after all , even if it is high class schlock .  in fact my only criticism of the film is that things get a tad weak towards the end .  tighter direction could have given the climax more urgency and a few of the characters act rather illogically given their life-threatening situation .  but these are minor complaints .  just see it .  not of this earth is one of the biggest sci-fi surprises in years .  and michael york : in one cool swoop you've made yourself a b-movie legend , dude . 
neg@ arnold schwarzenegger has been an icon for action enthusiasts , since the late 80's , but lately his films have been very sloppy and the one-liners are getting worse .  it's hard seeing arnold as mr . freeze in batman and robin , especially when he says tons of ice jokes , but hey he got 15 million , what's it matter to him ?  once again arnold has signed to do another expensive blockbuster , that can't compare with the likes of the terminator series , true lies and even eraser .  in this so called dark thriller , the devil ( gabriel byrne ) has come upon earth , to impregnate a woman ( robin tunney ) which happens every 1000 years , and basically destroy the world , but apparently god has chosen one man , and that one man is jericho cane ( arnold himself ) .  with the help of a trusty sidekick ( kevin pollack ) , they will stop at nothing to let the devil take over the world !  parts of this are actually so absurd , that they would fit right in with dogma .  yes , the film is that weak , but it's better than the other blockbuster right now ( sleepy hollow ) , but it makes the world is not enough look like a 4 star film .  anyway , this definitely doesn't seem like an arnold movie .  it just wasn't the type of film you can see him doing .  sure he gave us a few chuckles with his well known one-liners , but he seemed confused as to where his character and the film was going .  it's understandable , especially when the ending had to be changed according to some sources .  aside form that , he still walked through it , much like he has in the past few films .  i'm sorry to say this arnold but maybe these are the end of your action days .  speaking of action , where was it in this film ?  there was hardly any explosions or fights .  the devil made a few places explode , but arnold wasn't kicking some devil butt .  the ending was changed to make it more spiritual , which undoubtedly ruined the film .  i was at least hoping for a cool ending if nothing else occurred , but once again i was let down .  i also don't know why the film took so long and cost so much .  there was really no super affects at all , unless you consider an invisible devil , who was in it for 5 minutes tops , worth the overpriced budget .  the budget should have gone into a better script , where at least audiences could be somewhat entertained instead of facing boredom .  it's pitiful to see how scripts like these get bought and made into a movie .  do they even read these things anymore ?  it sure doesn't seem like it .  thankfully gabriel's performance gave some light to this poor film .  when he walks down the street searching for robin tunney , you can't help but feel that he looked like a devil .  the guy is creepy looking anyway !  when it's all over , you're just glad it's the end of the movie .  don't bother to see this , if you're expecting a solid action flick , because it's neither solid nor does it have action .  it's just another movie that we are suckered in to seeing , due to a strategic marketing campaign .  save your money and see the world is not enough for an entertaining experience . 
pos@ it was a crazy time in france , what with the french revolution right around the corner .  king louis xv would soon die , and his son would become king louis xvi .  such is the setting for beaumarchais : the scoundrel about the controversial playwright , spy and playboy pierre-augustin caron de beaumarchais .  beaumarchais was the author of the plays , " the barber of seville " and " the marriage of figaro . "  today people think of them as quaint and harmless operas , but , back in 1773 when the movie takes place , they were so scandalous that beaumarchais was thrown into prison more than once .  the movie beaumarchais : the scoundrel takes a light-hearted approach to its subject , resulting in an inviting motion picture .  one of france's most expensive productions ever , the movie was a huge hit when it opened there last year .  now in theatrical release in the united states , it eschews the seriousness of most art house films with a romping good story .  the secret of the film's success , other than the lavishness of sylvie de segonzac's costumes , has to be the performance by fabrice luchini as beaumarchais .  with his glistening eyes and his infectious smile , he mesmerizes the camera and the audience .  his wry little lips seem always to hint at some unspoken deviousness he is planning .  in a land where court intrigue determines one's destiny , constant scheming was a way of life for the aristocracy .  as our story starts , we learn that beaumarchais has bought himself a judgeship .  into his court comes a member of the nobility demanding an immediate sword fight .  beaumarchais , who has been having an affair with the man's wife , makes him wait until the current case on the docket is decided .  that over with , the fight is on .  with luchini's charisma , it is hard to root for anyone other than him .  audiences may remember him from the marvelous colonel chabert , in which he played the attorney .  although he does not have half of the good looks of his assistant gudin , played by manuel blanc , he dazzles the women and the viewers with his grace and style .  michael epp's warm and intimate cinematography provides a nice accompaniment to jean-marc kerdelhue's lush but realistic looking sets .  jean-claude petit's music , especially the hauntingly lovely flute solos , make for an enchanting time at the movies .  director jean-claude brisville , who wrote the script along with edouard molinaro , fleshed out a play by sacha guitry which , according to the press notes , was just a series of historic vignettes .  the disorganization of the play still comes through at some points in the movie , but the actors smooth it over with their good-hearted style .  typical of the scenes that come out of nowhere is the one in which a rotund benjamin franklin appears in a large pot of hot water , taking his bath .  one episode has beaumarchais working with a renegade spy who may or may not be a man .  another has beaumarchais using his personal fortune to aid the american revolution .  all of this may sound like a dull historical drama , but it is anything but .  the story plays more like theater of the absurd than a movie based on historical facts .  the radiantly lovely sandrine kiberlain plays marie-therese , the real love of beaumarchais's life .  but he is so likable that members of the audience may want to compete with her for him .  still , with his beguiling smile , one can never quite be sure if you should trust him .  the movie , on the other hand , can be trusted to deliver a high old time .  beaumarchais : the scoundrel runs 1 : 41 .  it is in french with english subtitles .  the film is not rated but would be an r for some nudity and sex , and should be fine for most teenagers . 
neg@ i looked at the " internet movie database " 's awards section for this film , and found that this was nominated for a golden globe for " best picture ( drama ) . "  anyone who's seen this film can back me up on this : this is the worst of the " great " disaster films , and that's not really saying a lot for this film .   " earthquake " is basically notable because it originally included some theatre thing where the theatre shook when the big earthquake occured .  on video , it's a bland and slow-moving film which gives us a bunch of different characters ( the disaster film requisite ) , then brings them together in the struggle against the big disaster .  while this worked in , say , " the towering inferno , " it doesn't here for one single reason : we don't care about any of the characters .  the film gives us charlton heston ( in one of many crap 70s films he made , including " skyjacked " and that classic , " soylent green " ) as a rich man married to ava gardner , who is having a little affair with a young single mom ( genieveve bujold ) ; a renegade police officer on suspension ( george kennedy , in his least humored performance ) ; in the second weirdest subplot , a motorcycle stuntman ( richard roundtree , right after his " shaft " thing ) whose big stunt is he goes on a little track that goes upside down ( yea , snore ) ; and the weirdest subplot : a military man/bag boy at a grocery store who has a little thing for buxom victoria principal , and eventually gets vengeance on those guys who made fun of his hair ( ! ! ! ) .  in smaller subplots , there's a pointless bit about people who are flying over l . a . ( the city in the film , by the way ) , one who's playing cards and married to a boring non-acting husband ( you think this one can go nowhere ?  guess again . he gets interested in the final frames ) ; there's genieveve bujold's moron son , who has a little adventure with wires ; and for some much-needed comedy , there's walter matthau ( billed as walter mutha . . . .  - the only laugh in the film ) , as a wild drunkard , who's big moment is a dance he does at a critical time .  as for the actual " earthquake , " it's rather a let-down .  there's a full hour of character-setups , none of which is interesting , then about 10 minutes of shaking , crumbling , and a bit where a house almost falls on bujold ( narrowly missing ) .  this film needed that whole theatre-shaking : they needed to wake everybody up because they were so bored .  there's little suspense following the quake , although this film tries for it .  there's an adventure in a crumbling high-rise office building , the wires with the kid , and the movement of people who are all injured .  but none of these are all-too suspenseful .  the finale with the heston/gardner/bujold love triangle is ended in a basic flip-of-the-coin bit , which brings out a big let-down .  and there's no real finale .  even " volcano " ended nicely , and that movie really sucked .  not only is it hokey , but you don't care about any character .  who cares if heston dies ?  who cares if he choses bujold or gardner ( although i would have chosen gardner , mainly on the basis that she can actually act ) ?  who cares if richard roundtree makes money on his stupid " stunt ? "  who cares if that idiot kid falls to his death on some wires ?  and who cares about that whole plane spiel ?  if anything , " earthquake " is worth a viewing for the same reason " glen or glenda ? "  is .  i mean , i laughed at this more than i did at " bio dome . "  but that's another story ( and review ) .  in short , " earthquake " gives disaster pics a bad name . 
pos@ in may of 1977 , just 2 years after steven spielberg's success with jaws and 3 years after francis coppolas' the godfather , a risky , ambitious young director named george lucas went for the same unpredictable box office success .  little did he know that star wars would become the greatest science fiction epic in the history of film .  in january of this year , lucas re-released star wars on its 20th anniversary .  in this new , remastered version , the added effects , which range from leathery desert beasts inserted into already existing shots to an awkward new scene in which hans solo bargains his way out of a jam with a computer-generated jabba the hutt , don't do much but call attention to themselves .  other than these , the film is exactly the same .  why pay to see it in the theaters , you might ask ?  simply because when this movie was released , most of us were a few years short of being born .  we should all get up and go to the movies for the experience , especially if you haven't seen it .  the plot is basic but in the same way , complex .  it has many themes , but the one rotates around luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) and his quest to become a jedi knight .  his mission begins when a droid named r2-d2 plays back a secret message recorded by the beautiful princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , which tells him to contact the mysterious obi-wan kanoby ( alec guiness ) .  he and kanoby then , joined by two inter-galactic renegades , hans solo ( harrison ford ) and chewbacca , and skywalker's two droids d2 and c3po ( the voice of anthony edwards ) , wage war upon the corrupt empire , commanded by an evil general ( peter cushing ) and the traitorous darth vader ( the voice of james earl jones ) .  skywalker defeats the evil empire by rising out of himself to embrace something larger : the force .  the film is obviously quite star-studded .  but how was lucas to know that ford would become one of the most sought after men in hollywood and jones' voice would appear so many more times in the future ?  it just happened to work out for him .  the magic of star wars lies in the way that skywalker's triumph is symbolized by the audience's sense of becoming something larger than life itself-a universe of fans , young and old , recreating a movie atmosphere that will impress generations forever .   , 
neg@ the previews for the movie are pretty good .  they show a little plot , all the characters , and the emotional highlights , all spliced together to give a general impression of the script .  unfortunately , the full movie adds nothing but 115 minutes .  the residents of mystery love hockey .  mystery and hockey go together like texas and high school football .  the townsfolk love hockey so much that they even acquit a player who's guilty of shooting another man ( yes , that's one of the movie's jokes . )  every saturday , the best players pair off for a game , and the whole town comes to watch .  the town's prodigal son charlie ( hank azaria ) wrote an article on the weekly game for sports illustrated .  mystery's national fame has the town abuzz .  a week later , charlie actually shows up in person , and he brings with him an offer from the nhl .  the new york rangers will come to mystery to play the locals .  the mysterians see this as both good and bad .  on the one hand , they'd love to have the fame and the money of such an exhibition .  on the other hand , they don't want to turn up as the butt of leno and letterman jokes .  the movie follows a handful of lives that are affected by the proposition .  biebe ( russell crowe ) has just been retired from the team and is asked to coach the boys , including his new replacement .  he's already resentful , and to top it off charlie has been making eyes at his wife .  crowe is not given a lot of room to act in this film , so he's just kind of stuck with constantly brooding .  charlie , meanwhile , is resentful of having born in a town where hockey is the only measure of a man's worth .  his " gift " of the feature story , and of the new york rangers , was his way of compensating for not being a better skater .  he hoped it would earn him some respect and merit , but the townspeople find reasons to continue disliking him .  burt reynolds could have been interesting as walter , the judge whose courtroom was befouled by a moronic jury of hockey fans .  walter actually has some experience with collegiate hockey , but he actively tries to put it behind him .  he wants his son to take the game more seriously , but he wants his community to just get over it .  reynolds could have been good , but sloppy writing and/or editing keep walter in the corner , and so reynolds never really gets to pull his performance all together .  one character actually was interesting .  biebe's wife ( mary mccormack ) , like the judge , understood that there was more to life than hockey .  but unlike him she has come to accept the skewed view of the community .  she chose the town and her husband with her eyes wide open .  her unique insight is verbalized once , and it lasts only a scene before it is gone , but her performance carries the hint of some deeper wisdom .  mysterty , alaska follows a handful of other characters , but none are well developed or worth mentioning .  the biggest problem with this movie is that there is no real heart to the story , no underlying thing that the movie is really about .  instead , roach and screenwriters david e . kelley and sean o'byrne try to cram the entire human condition into this sports comedy .  they try to make you laugh and cry , to feel outrage and pride .  they present the framing and cadence for jokes , but there's nothing truly funny .  they show appropriately staged scenes of sadness , but they give you nothing to be really sad about .  as columnist molly ivins would say , it's all hat , no cattle .  the perfect opportunity arises for roach to say what this movie is really about .  there is a funeral scene , played with appropriate gravity and somber music .  it is a chance for the characters to reflect on their lives and decide what's truly important .  russell crowe steps forward to speak , about to spell out the movie's metaphor for us .  he says that what really matters in life is " community . . . . "  then adds " and hockey . "  i guess these mysterians really are as shallow as they appear .  only mildly bad , mystery , alaska probably deserves 2 stars .  i even laughed out loud , genuine laughs in places .  but i docked it an extra half star when mike myers , a friend of roach , turned up in a role that didn't suit him .  myers is a comic character actor .  he puts on masks , becomes an outrageous caricature , and is funny .  he's great as austin powers , dr . evil , or any of his scottish characters .  nobody else in mysterty , alaska is a comic caricature .  all the other people have the feel of dramatic characters in semi-serious roles .  for roach to bring in myers for a few cheap laughs shows incredible contempt toward the rest of his cast , toward his audience , and indeed toward the film itself .  it's an acknowledgment by the director that the film is not worth taking seriously . 
pos@ virtual reality is a topic that has almost defined its own genre .  since 'dark city' ( 1998 ) , films about alternative universes and parallel worlds have been coming one after another .  the most popular and original of them all has been the matrix .  all the films released after it , have been less successful .  david cronenberg's existenz , released only a couple of months after the matrix , was accepted and even appreciated ( by some ) , but the hype was gone .  and when 'the thirteenth floor' aired this fall , it was completely overseen and ignored .  i admit that this issue has become something between tiring and annoying , feeling like eating the same meal over and over again .  it was therefore i was less than excited , when i went out to see to 'the thirteenth floor' .  however , i was positively surprised by josef rusnak's latest picture .  matrix was an entertaining thrill ride through dreams and reality , combining the best of hollywood's action and effects with an intelligent story .  existenz was a violent , gory and unsettling journey through reality and virtual reality , ending in blood and madness .  'the thirteenth floor' is somewhere in between .  instead of going after the crowds - the action audience ( like the matrix ) , or aiming at the horror fans ( like existenz ) , 'the thirteenth floor' presents a more intelligent plot , witch will provide a less entertaining and more serious experience , that the true science fiction lovers will find rewarding .  in a near future . . . on  the thirteenth floor of a classified building , a genius scientist , hannon fuller , has created a simulated world , his personal dreamworld , where every inhabitant is a complex , selflearning program that only believes it is real .  right after the first testing of this world , fuller ( ) is found murdered .  douglas hall ( ) , his closest friend and business partner , immediately becomes the prime suspect and must enter through the thirteenth floor in search of the truth .  a beautiful woman ( gretchen mol ) who suddenly appears on the scene may hold the key to the mystery , which might unravel the horrifying truth about his own existence .  the first " download into simulation " is impressive .  it is the creator's first visit to his world , his creation .  in order to enter this virtual universe , you have to take over someone's identity , become another person .  this is called conciseness transfer , and this is part of the tragedy in the film : people " wake up " in unknown places and strange things start happen .  they start to doubt in their own sanity .  these innocent people pay for the mistakes of their " users " and creators with their sanity and their lives .  it is a frightening reality ; the fact that all the people in the simulation ( the program links ) are living out their lives , oblivious , not knowing that they are puppets in someone's fantasy .  with an appealing ( " blade runner " - type ) of detective story , this film presents the beauty and possibilities of virtual reality and the lurking danger that is always present .  our modern world is metal and glass -- cold , unfriendly , impersonal .  the thirties are different -- colorful , beautiful , elegant , virile .  this contrast demonstrates a wish for change .  virtual reality is here portrayed as a magical , enchanting power that seduces you into its endless possibilities .  to some it is just a journey to their personal paradise , to some a personal playground -- a life without any consequences .  for others - a way to start over and " correct " their mistakes , by living in an illusion of their past .  virtual reality is a wizard that transforms your hopes , dreams and fantasies to life .  at least that's how it is all beginning .  but when you're waking up from your dream , the real world seems worthless and unreal and all you can think off is returning to your personal paradise .  this , almost narcotic effect , soon turns into confusion and ultimately madness .  some important and interesting philosophical questions are raised -- what is real ?  what is thought ?  who are we ?  if these were answered , this film would be the greatest science fiction ever made .  they are off course not answered , but posed in an intelligent manner .  the visual aspect of the film is one of the key elements , since it portrays the contrast between these computer-simulated universes .  kirk m . petrucelli has done a marvelous job with the recreation of the thirties with its glamour , grace and color ; and setting this world in opposition to our own -- an almost caricatured recreation of the nineties .  there are some honest and decent performances by an almost unknown cast and harald klose's moody musical score that is at in right place at the right time .  a rather unusual thing about'the thirteenth floor' is the almost complete lack of special effects .  there are no cgi animated creatures , no bullets in slow motion .  this is a more philosophical approach , reminding about the european way of filmmaking .  this is off course a major disappointment to the audience that is used to endless gunfights and mutated amphibians , but the more serious science fiction buffs and 'dark city'-fans will be pleased .  this film is interesting and inspiring .  it has everything existenz doesn't , but it lacks the immediacy and intensity of the matrix .  and then there is a happy end which , like in 'dark city' , completely alienates it from the rest of the story and context .  the plot itself is not as original as the filmmakers want us to think , since they have virtually sucked out all information from the best science fiction classics , including blade runner and 'dark city' .  with this in mind , 'the thirteenth floor' doesn't make an oscar candidate or a film that will be remembered a year from now , yet this is a beautiful , elegant and intelligent take on virtual reality . 
neg@ vikings v . bears ?  no , this isn't the lineup for monday night football .  rather , these are the two opposing forces that will battle to the death in " the 13th warrior , " a film that is as dramatically flat as it is gratuitously gory .  based on michael crichton's book , eaters of the dead , this viking saga tries to evoke the mysticism of fabled norsemen and the glorious battles that they fought .  their strength and honor would eventually etch their place in history among the greatest warriors that ever picked up a sword .  luckily for the vikings , however , their warring abilities were not as clumsy as this film .  antonio bandaras is ahmed , a travelling ambassador .  accompanied by his friend ( omar shariff in a cameo ) , they eventually come across a small viking village .  we see that the vikings are an extremely proud group whose greatest strength is their fortitude .  they laugh heartily , revel in their arrogance , and sing songs of battles won .  but their festivities are about to be halted when a messenger boy arrives to tell the village leader that a great evil is threatening their land .  help is needed quickly .  an elderly , fortune-telling witch arrives .  after a brief incantation , she proclaims that 12 warriors and one more " not of norse blood " are needed to ensure victory .  personally , i always wonder why people believe these oracles when they look so haggardly and on the brink of insanity .  nonetheless , 12 men eagerly accept their place while ahmed becomes the pivotal 13th .  the group then sets out to do the greatest battle of their lives .  of course during their ride , ahmed becomes the target of fun for the other 12 burly viking warriors .  but he ably shows that it's not the size of the dog in the fight but rather the size of the fight in the dog .  he is able to overcome the proud arrogance of the vikings , but will his skills ( and that of the group ) be enough to defeat whatever evil is menacing the countryside ?  it does not look promising .  these creatures , resembling bears , are strong and have high morale .  they are fearless and display a desire for decapitating the heads of their enemies .  they attack by the hundreds and the next strike will come soon .  the warriors prepare their defenses and pray to their gods .  they are ready to sacrifice their lives .   " this is a good way to die , " says one of the fallen warriors .  despite the larger-than-life battle sequences , i was unmoved by the entire experience .  at many points , i was even confused .  for example , somewhere in the middle of the film , a sub-plot creeps up involving the prince of the threatened land .  he seems to have an agenda to elevate himself to greater power during this crisis .  however , the sub-plot never fully materializes , and we are left scratching our heads as to the purpose of its inclusion .  there are other questions that i had , but the real problem was that the story ( little of it that there was ) offered no characters to love or hate .  the leader of the viking warriors had the most charisma .  however , banderas's role is completely underwritten and it is unclear why being the 13th warrior makes him so special .  an entire rewrite of the ahmed character is in order .  also , much of the action takes place during torrential downpours or at night , which made battles very difficult to follow .  i would have preferred more time looking at the viking culture and how their beliefs shaped their decision to do battle against the enemy .  as it stands , the film manages more confusion than intensity .  it would make thor cry . 
pos@ perhaps the most dramatic changes in the motion picture industry in this decade have to do with special effects .  there is no question that action-adventure and science-fiction/action movies are now judged by the character of their light and noise .  whereas classic adventure pics of the last twenty years , such as raiders of the lost ark , were made in grand traditional fashion ; contemporary films like jurassic park are multimillion-dollar creations of computer technology .  the latest in this visually awesome series of movies , the wachowski brothers' the matrix , is a testament to the skilled use of special effects and its ability to enhance a movie's story .  unlike many sci-fi movies which promote themselves as effects-heavy blockbusters but fail to deliver on that promise , the matrix is a carefully constructed special effects event .  it runs 135 minutes in length and employs a countless number of computerized tricks which range from gimmick to grandiose , and the quality of the effects remains constant throughout the film's length .  contrary to popular trend , the matrix commits itself to being a spectacle of light and sound .  in this regard , the movie is something like a card sharp .  with its flashy mass stripped away , the matrix would be quite shallow and untalented .  the script is characteristically weak , and the dialogue suffers in lieu of a far more innovative visual approach .  but , like the card sharp , the matrix wows its audience to such a high degree that actual content is irrelevent .  the viewers don't care about what the matrix has to say as long as the next special effects sequence is right around the corner .  and right around the corner they usually are , for the script tells a fast-paced , albeit frequently revisited story .  as the movie explains , the world as we know it is nothing but an elaborate computer program constructed by an artificial intelligence for the purpose of placating mankind .  billions of human beings lie in this dormant state while the intelligence -- the matrix -- " farms " our life energy .  only a select group of individuals knows of the " real " world , and a particularly ingenious squad of these rebels is led by ultra-cool morpheus ( laurence fishburne ) .  morpheus and his crew recruit a computer expert named neo ( keanu reeves ) , believing he is a prophesied individual who will help them overthrow the matrix and return peace to earth .  the cast plays out this story in stylish fashion .  the set design is very dynamic , running the gambit between cramped and dreary to bright and airy .  the costumes , as well as the actors who wear them , add to the roles .  for instance , the manifested antagonists in the movie , a group of " agents " created by the matrix in its computer program , all dress in matching secret servicewear ; the rebel fighters , on the other hand , dress in rich hues of leather .  the casting cannot be criticized , for the typically stoic reeves isn't required to say much and laurence fishburne gets plenty of time to be so damn cool .  supports in carrie-anne moss , joe pantoliano , and hugo weaving are all effectual .  one of the best comparisons to thw matrix is last year's science fiction masterpiece dark city , particularly if one ponders how this same premise would've worked from a different approach .  the alex proyas film was far more dark and introspective , requiring a bit of thought before themes became clear ; here , the wachowski brothers have managed to construct a thrill-ride motion picture with little abandon and much noise .  the better picture between the two depends on the viewer , but the key to the success of the matrix is that the noise did not get in the way of the fun . 
neg@ attention moviegoers : you are about to enter a meaning-free zone .  should the sound system malfunction during your viewing of 200 cigarettes , do not panic .  the film will work just as well as a silent movie .  chronicling the meaningless lives of vain , yuppie types , the movie covers the same ground as the wilt stillman films ( last days of disco , barcelona and metropolitan ) but without any of his acerbic wit and the inviting style of his writing .  first-time writer shana larsen makes the mistake of creating a couple of dozen characters and not giving any of them any depth .  there isn't one of these characters worth caring about .  the movie features such a cornucopia of hot young stars that it looks like a celluloid version of " people magazine . "  among others , the movie features : ben affleck , casey affleck , david chappelle , janeane garofalo , gaby hoffmann , catherine kellner , courtney love , jay mohr , martha plimpton , christina ricci and paul rudd .  and unlike people magazine , the people speak , not that they have anything interesting to say .  it's new year's eve in 1981 , and monica ( martha plimpton ) is preparing her big party .  structured as a series of relatively unrelated stories about her guests on the way to the party , director risa bramon garcia flits back and forth among her stars .  monica's apartment is in " noho , " an area that one of the guests describes as " so cool , all of the poor people live there . "  typical of the shallow couples in the movie are kevin ( paul rudd ) and his friend and would-be sexual partner lucy ( courtney love ) .  they argue about whether lucy is a slut or not since she sleeps with everyone , except him , of course .  she dares him to go immediately to a bathroom stall and have sex with her , which turns out to be neither erotic , funny or successful -- rather like the rest of the story .  the movie gets its title from the carton of cigarettes that lucy gives kevin for his new year's eve birthday .   " cigarettes are a shield against emotional interaction with other people , " kevin later tells lucy in a snippet of dialog that sounds profound only outside the context of the movie .  another character , played by jay mohr , has a problem with his sexual triumphs .  every woman he beds falls deeply in love with him by the next morning .  when his latest conquest tells him of her affection for him , his response is " i like a lot of people . "  as the movie finally draws to a close , the characters awaken from their post-party game of musical beds .  some have passed out early from alcohol abuse and remember little , while others actually have some clue as to what happened .  the movie itself is so forgettable that by the time you reach your car in the parking lot , all trace of the film will have vanished from your mind , which is probably the best thing that can be said about the movie .  200 cigarettes runs 1 : 40 .  it is rated r for profanity , sex and one dope smoking scene and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
pos@ titanic is , without a doubt , the best movie i've seen all year .  and believe me , i'm not an easy critic to impress : the english patient was too long , men in black was over-hyped , and several of the " big summer releases " were dead in the water .  thank god this film got delayed until december .  it's my christmas present .  titanic is in the tradition of the old hollywood epics of years-gone-by , and it is truly a stunning film .  while watching this picture you are completely mesmerized , never taking your eyes off the screen , nor checking your watch to see how much longer it's gonna last , despite its 3 hour plus running time .  as a friend of mine , who's a true titanic-buff , said " if someone doesn't like this film , it's because they didn't want to . "  truer words are hard to come by .  of course , it doesn't hurt that this film comes from one of my favorite directors , james cameron , who is unarguably the greatest action director of all time .  if you wish to argue that point with me , look at his list of credits : the terminator , aliens , the abyss , terminator 2 , true lies , etc . still care to disagree ?  not only has cameron helmed the directorial duties of this film , he also wrote , produced , and edited it .  and to show his true faith for the project , he renenged all directing fees and percentage points to ease the budget costs .  it's obvious he truly loves titanic .  the film opens with footage , both real and fake , of an underwater excursion by special submarines to the bottom of the atlantic , where a team of explorers lead by bill paxton are searcing for a diamond called the " heart of the ocean " , which , according to bill paxton's character , would be worth more than the hope diamond today .  their search turns up , dissapointly , no diamond , but instead a drawing of a young woman wearing the diamond .  this picture is broadcast on cnn and is seen by a 101 year old woman named rose , who claims to be the girl in the picture .  she is flown out to sea to meet bill paxton and to tell them about the diamond .  almost all of the rest of the movie is her narration of the past .  rose's narration shows us how she was an unhappy young girl , engaged to a rich man named cal hockley ( billy zane ) that she didn't want to marry .  her mother is pushy and obnoxious , and cal hockley is arrogant .  they are boarding the titanic , which is sailing to america , and this is where she is to marry cal .  meanwhile , a young man named jack dawson ( leonardo dicaprio ) and his italian friend ( danny nucci ) win two 3rd class tickets aboard the titanic in a poker game .  they are overjoyed , and rush aboard just as the boat is leaving .  for them , this is their ticket to america , to a better life .  for rose , she is sailing to her doom .  the first hour and a half or so of titanic tells the story of how rose dewitt ( kate winslet ) and jack dawson fall in love .  it's the classic wrong-side-of-the-tracks story , and does sometimes resort to a few cliches .  but as i said above , the love portion isn't sappy and doesn't " weigh the film down " , as some critics have said .  it's sweet , and it didn't make me restless at all , despite the fact that i usually hate love stories .  of course , it might help that cameron introduces some pretty interesting characters to help keep our eyes glued to the screen .  most of these people actually were passengers on the titanic back in 1912 , including the enigmatic molly brown ( played by the talented kathy bates ) , the captain of titanic ( bernard hill ) , and so on .  all of these characters add an extra depth to the film , and make it that easier to watch .  of course , things really start to get going after the hour and a half mark , where the titanic strikes the iceberg and begins a slow sink to the bottom .  the sinking is depicted realisticly , and the effects are truly amazing .  it is not told in a heroic fashion sense either , as people are portrayed as panicking , pushing others aside to get on the limited lifeboats , and drowning and dying horrible deaths .  the best part of the movie , in my opinion , comes at the very end , when we flash back to the future .  the crew , who at first had been skeptical of rose's story , now are totally aborbed by her .  rose goes out onto the ship's ledge , and we then learn a secret about her that catches us off guard .  we then see a dream of rose's , in which she returns to the titanic and is dancing with jack dawson .  most people i talked with after the movie saw this as only a dream .  however , i think it symbolized more ; i think it meant that rose had died , and is going to a sort of heaven , which would be the happiest part of her life : her and her one true love , jack .  if anyone has seen the movie and would like to voice an opinion about this , e-mail me at venom8!hotmail . com . 
neg@ the rich legacy of cinema has left us with certain indelible images .  the tinkling christmas tree bell in " it's a wonderful life . "  bogie's speech at the airport in " casablanca . "  little elliott's flying bicycle , silhouetted by the moon in " e . t . "  and now , " starship troopers " director paul verhoeven adds one more image that will live in our memories forever : doogie houser doing a vulcan mind meld with a giant slug .   " starship troopers , " loosely based on the robert heinlein novel , is the story of an interstellar war between humans and giant insects .  in the hands of verhoeven , the mammoth sci-fi battle flick is one of the most astonishingly bad films ever made , a monument to inept filmmaking on a colossal scale .  to put it simply , it's a bug bomb .  in " robocop " and " total recall , " verhoeven displayed a gift for creating an entertaining mix of violence , special effects and social satire , and " starship troopers " starts off in similar fashion , with a tongue-in-cheek futuristic military recruitment ad that shows promise .  things go downhill fast , though , as we meet our heroes , a group of buenos aires teens preparing to graduate from high school .  inexplicably , johnny rico , carmen ibenez , dizzy flores and xander barcalow are played by square-jawed anglo kids who look like they just stepped out of a mountain dew commercial .  it's a veritable " alpha centuri 90210 " as we watch the love-smitten teens squabble in the name of love .  michael ironside plays their teacher , who waves around a cheesy fake severed arm while lecturing about civic responsibilities .  eventually , the kids join the military , with dreams of glory in their addled little minds .  one of their classmates , carl jenkins ( " doogie houser's " neil patrick harris , ) snags a job in military intelligence because of his strong psychic abilities .  he displays his gift by psychically ordering a pet ferret to crawl up his mother's leg .  a long , dull boot camp sequence follows , enlivened only by an extended coed shower scene where the recruits swap snappy banter as the " showgirls " director's camera roams over their buff bodies .  finally , a full hour into the film , the war finally starts and we meet the enemy .  the bugs hail from klendathu and colonize planets by hurling their spores into space .  they attack starships by spinning around and firing deadly plasma blasts from their rears .  yes , incredible as it seems , the bugs actually kill with cosmic farts .  a phenomenally large amount of money was spent creating the computer animated insects and the results are mixed at best .  sweeping distant shots depicting hordes of giant bugs racing to attack are both impressive and scary , but the close-ups are a different matter .  the insects have an odd , artificial look , like origami creations with a mottled plastic coating .  the attack scenes are intensely violent , as one would expect from verhoeven , but the overall look is too phony to generate any real tension .  while the action is frantic , the military strategy , wildly illogical even by hollywood standards , grows tiresome quickly .  verhoeven tries to spice things up by throwing in more satiric news coverage , but the faux-jingoistic scenes of children " doing their part for the war effort " by squishing roaches on a sidewalk aren't enough to make up for the long stretches of sheer dreck .  one can only guess what paul verhoeven was trying to do here .  his customary one part satire , two parts ultra-violence formula is way out of whack , and most of the film just flounders .  in " showgirls " fashion , some scenes are almost bad enough to be good .  an intergalactic kegger party , with jake busey playing " dixie " on a green plexiglas fiddle , has a certain bizarre appeal .  a sex scene between two of the teens achieves a smarmy charm , enhanced a few minutes later when the female receives a fatal jab from a bug , but tells her hero that she doesn't mind dying .   " it's okay , " she gasps , " i got to have you ! "  and then , of course , there's doogie's mind meld with a bug .  it's possible that verhoeven was attempting to create an homage to the era of the original novel .  heinlein's pre- " stranger in a strange land " books were aimed at adolescent males , and " starship troopers " has the antiseptic retro-future look of late 50s/early 60s sci-fi .  the one cityscape shown is a jetsons-like gleaming metropolis , with flying cars whizzing past an obvious matte painting .  the hairstyles are retro too , straight from the frankie avalon , annette funicello school of fashion .  ultimately , verhoeven's motives are irrelevant .  he has produce a gargantuan film that fails as an action film or as a social satire .  it even fails to be an entertaining bad movie .  avoid " starship troopers " at all costs . 
pos@ for the first reel of girls town , you just can't get over lili taylor .  is it possible to remain unperturbed that a woman of this age is playing a high school student ?  harder still , can you avoid astonishment at how perfect she is in the part ?  with the sure , showy expertise of a de niro , taylor imbues unwed mother patti with all the faux fuck-you confidence she can muster .  it's a deeply felt , dead-on performance , and by the halfway point you've forgiven taylor her own maturity .  for all its verite pretenses , girls town is less about a bunch of high-schoolers than it is about a movie director and a cadre of writer-performers examining their own feelings about rape , relationships , and american womanhood .  the movie's opening scenes sketch an easy friendship between a group of four smart/sassy high school outsiders on the verge of graduation : patti , angela ( bruklin harris ) , emma ( anna grace ) , and nikki ( aunjanue ellis ) .  but about 10 minutes into the film , we get word that nikki has swallowed a fistful of pills and bowed out of life .  the remaining girls manage to smug nikki's diary out of her grieving mother's home , and page through it at patti's place , investigating the root of nikki's despair .  what they find is cruel and galvanizing -- nikki had been raped by an editor at a newspaper where she interned , and was privately questioning the sanity and value of a world where such a thing could happen .  shell-shocked by the truth of the matter , the three girls begin to talk among themselves and come to a realization about their own lives .  emma says she was raped last year on a date with a football player .  patti's barely sympathetic , wondering what the hell emma thought she was doing with her shirt off in a jock's car .  and anyway , patti's had her own share of guys who wouldn't take no for an answer .  pained , acrimonious debate ensues as the trio grow more and more angry -- angry about the impossibility of saying no , and angry with themselves for being weak , for being naive , for putting up with it .   " why do we put up with it ? "  emma finally asks , once the argument has reached a fever pitch .   " we try to talk about it , and look what happens .  we fight for 20 minutes . "  there's the admirable crux of this picture .  girls town is a political film , in that it calls for action .  but it's incomplete-it's never quite sure how to justify that action , or what form it should take .  the trio become crusaders for their right to dignity , and it's surely one of this year's most stirring movie moments when emma lobs a concrete block through the passenger-side window of that damn jock's car ( doing the right thing ? ) .  they hang out in the bathroom , chatting incessantly and scrawling slogans and naming names on the door to a toilet stall .   " subvert the patriarchy , " emma writes , and then starts a hall of shame list underneath that other students begin to contribute to .  the girls silence their hecklers , take revenge on the deadbeat father of patti's child , and eventually come face-to-face with nikki's tormentor .  still , the movie has a desperately unfinished quality , and none of these subsequent exploits is particularly satisfying .   ( you keep waiting for someone to call the cops on these brazen girls , but nobody thinks of it . )  perhaps searching for a resolution missing from the material at hand , the film borrows its epigraphs from audre lorde and queen latifah ( " who you callin' a bitch ? " ) .  the points are well taken , but they should have been unnecessary .  long on characterization but a little short on story , girls town is less than it could have been , and too self-congratulatory for my own taste .  director jim mckay is best known as a consort of r . e . m . 's  michael stipe ( he directed the nearly unwatchable tourfilm for that band ) , and girls town is his first foray into feature filmmaking .  the movie was created and scripted by committee , but mckay and his lead performers had to shoot on a shoestring when , predictably , the group couldn't secure funding .  then again , girls town on a budget would hardly be the same film .  the movie's slapdash quality is key to its significance .  truth be told , all three of the leads look too wise for high school , but that's ok -- there's a once-removed quality to their fine , spontaneous performances , as the women take a very skillful look back at the girls they once were , the girls they wish they had been , or some combination .  for all its flaws , this one gets extra points for having its uncertain head and heart in the same noble place . 
neg@ an american werewolf in london is john landis' groundbreaking feature about an american tourist who gets himself bitten by a werewolf in jolly old england .  the groundbreaking part of the movie is the special effects .  more specifically , the makeup used for the transformation of a man into a werewolf ; and for the ghosts that haunt the main character .  even twenty years after its release , that part of the movie is still impressive .  although , i would have to say that it really is the only part of the movie that could be considered impressive .  the rest of the movie is a run of the mill werewolf flick with some extra gore thrown in for good measure .  if it weren't for the cutting edge makeup effects used in the werewolf transformation it is most likely that this is a film that would have gone largely unnoticed when it was released back in 1980 .  and with good reason -- the acting isn't great and neither is the writing .  well ok , we don't actually expect either of those things to be great in a horror film .  but one other important element is lacking here too -- it isn't scary .  with no exception , you know what is going to happen before it happens .  you don't even need the obligatory scary music to give you a hint .  i will give director john landis credit for this being one of the best looking horror films that i have ever seen .  but john , it just wasn't scary .  i didn't know if this was intended to be some sort of romantic drama and the whole werewolf thing was just thrown in to get people to come to the theater to see it , but it didn't work for me .  actually , it was intended as a sort of a spoof on horror films .  but the mix of the comedic moments with the melodrama was so bad ; the intended humor was lost on me .  it's never a good sign that you don't realize a movie is supposed to be funny until after the movie is long over and you read it in the background material .  call me crazy , but you shouldn't have to do research on a movie to enjoy it .  i'm not even going to get into the plot of the movie that much , since the title pretty well sums the whole thing up .  werewolf bites boy ( david naughton ) .  boy ends up in hospital where he is tended to and eventually falls for pretty nurse ( jenny agutter ) and then strange things begin to happen to boy .  including , and i must admit this is a very nice touch , visits from his friend who was killed in the same werewolf attack that ended up with him in the hospital .  the neat thing here is that his buddy is a rapidly deteriorating corpse .  i know it sounds strange , but it actually works .  the scenes between david naughton and the dead buddy ( griffin dunne ) are really the best parts of the movie .  as i said , probably the only reason that this film was a hit was because of the special effects .  while they are still impressive today , they aren't impressive enough , or plentiful enough to warrant watching this film .  and since they are more or less the highlight of the film , there are far better choices out there if you want a scary movie to curl up with your sweetheart to watch .  actually , the 1998 sequel , an american werewolf in paris , is more entertaining since it doesn't take itself as seriously and actually provides a few more laughs along the way . 
pos@ gothic murder-mystery yarns are not a new conceit .  in fact , they've been around in books and on film for many , many years .  without the proper handling , they come off as old-fashioned , bland , and outdated .   " the gift , " directed by sam raimi , is a tried-and-true effort that surprises very little , and includes everything from a wide array of suspects and red herrings , to mansions in the deep south with moss trees out front , to the eventual discovery of a waterlogged corpse found in a nearby pond .  it's fairly obvious who the killer is ; in fact , i predicted who it would be before the movie began and was correct in my preliminary suspicions .  the film ultimately shouldn't work , but it does , thanks to a sparkling cast that fills each character with so many memorable nuances , the most fun to be had is in simply watching the people interact with each other .  annie wilson ( cate blanchett ) is a recently widowed mother of three sons who makes her living giving psychic readings to the residents of her backwater southern hometown .  some of her mainstay clients include valerie barksdale ( hilary swank ) , who is severely abused by her husband donnie ( keanu reeves ) , and buddy cole ( giovanni ribisi ) , an unstable mechanic who is confused by the nightmares he's been having about a mysterious blue diamond that is somehow linked to his father .  for annie , she does not give the readings merely for money , but uses it as a way of seeking solace in finding the good in everyone's future .  her late grandmother ( rosemary harris ) told her as a child that it was a gift she was given , and she should always remember that .  when annie's eldest son is involved in a fight at school , she meets the nice-guy school principal , wayne collins ( greg kinnear ) , whom she finds herself attracted to .  but wayne is engaged to the wealthy jessica king ( katie holmes ) , whom annie immediately gets a negative vibe about .  at a party with her best friend linda ( kim dickens ) , annie stumbles upon jessica in a compromising position with lawyer david duncan ( gary cole ) .  soon after , jessica has disappeared , leaving everyone in a frenzy over what could have possibly happened to her , and annie starts to have nightmares and apparitions linking jessica with the vicious redneck donnie barksdale , and the pond behind his home .   " the gift " may be cliched on a sheer storytelling level , but the performances and tight direction from raimi ( who has redeemed himself for his embarrassing last film , 1999's " for love of the game " ) lift the picture up several notches .  slowly enveloping the viewer into the many intriguing characters and their individual plights , the disappearance of jessica at the 30-minute mark divulges the movie's true intentions and transforms the proceedings into a taut , at times frightening , horror-mystery .  at the center of the film is the exceptional cate blanchett ( 1999's " the talented mr . ripley " ) , who turns annie wilson from what could have been little more than a run-of-the-mill protagonist into a very exact , down-to-earth , realistic person with valid troubles and a caring attitude towards those around her .  blanchett takes the unextraordinary material and runs with it , giving the entire film a truly classy aura that it otherwise might not have had .  we follow her at every turn because she is so mesmerizing , both as a character and an actress .  blanchett isn't the only bright performer , as she is ably supported by one of the best casts of the year .  in her first role following her oscar win for 1999's " boys don't cry , " hilary swank is excellent as the confused valerie , who seeks guidance from annie , but is too scared to take her biggest advice of all : to leave the grossly abusive donnie .  as donnie , keanu reeves ( 2000's " the watcher " ) makes an utterly convincing backwoods meanie , so much so that it is difficult to believe he is an actor at all .  for the often-criticized reeves , whose acting abilities have never been the best , this is the biggest compliment he could possibly get , and it is also one of the better performances he has given .  giovanni ribisi ( 2000's " the boiler room " ) is heartbreaking as a mentally slow young man who sees annie as his only friend , and wants her to do nothing but help him understand why he is being plagued by bad dreams about his dad .  in the small , but pivotal role of the sleazy jessica king , katie holmes ( 2000's " wonder boys " ) has turned in yet another stunning supporting turn .  her promiscuous role of jessica is one she has never played before , and she is radiant in her few scenes .  finally , kim dickens ( 2000's " hollow man " ) makes her usual strong impression as annie's spicy best friend , linda .  the other notable aspect of " the gift " is its moody atmosphere that lays such a thickly foreboding air over every scene it's almost suffocating .  thanks to cleverly construed editing by arthur coburn and bob murawski , and the successful use of different eerie sounds effects and a very good music score by christopher young , the movie not only achieves a scary undercurrent , but one that is filled with dread .  helped along by a strong screenplay by billy bob thornton and tom epperson , which makes the most of its setting and delightful cast , " the gift " is that rarest of thrillers that actually thrills , and offers up a fair share of chills , too .  it may not be groundbreakingly original , but it sure is an entertaining ride for the duration of its running time . 
neg@ upon first viewing of this movie , the phrases " been there " and " done that " come quickly to mind .  spy hard manages to steal almost every joke from the zucker brothers films , the most popular of which are airplane and the naked gun series .  stealing stuff can be profitable in this industry , but only when you steal the right stuff .  what little plot there is involves dick steele , aka .  agent wd-40 ( leslie nielsen ) trying to save the world from an almost deranged madman played by andy griffith .  along the way to it goal ( goal ? ) , the film manages to spoof mainly the james bond type films , but also manages to hit on films such as home alone and sister act .  the trick about spoofing is that you have to actually be funny , or at the least , satirical .  spy hard achieves neither , as it borrows all of the wrong elements from the superior zucker brothers films .  the " dick , the world is in danger .  what is it ?  well , it's a big roundish ball floating in space around the sun . .   ( i'm paraphrasing ) " type of exchange is used at least four times in the opening ten minutes of the film , each time getting progressively less funny .  what they should have stolen were the background sight gags which were so effective in the zucker brother's films while writing their own dialogue .  director rick friedberg focuses more on the mug shots of his actors ( especially nielsen , who can do this quite well ) than on the delivery and context of their lines , much of the time cutting the punchline short .  the whole film seems to be in a race with itself to be over , as is evident in the final sequence , where there is no comedic denouement after the climax .  as was usual in the zucker brothers films and in spy hard , the end credits tend to replace this by being out of context .  one of the more amusing was , " captain of the enterprise . . . . . . james  t . kirk " .  overall , i thought this was a very weak effort .  while all of the right films to spoof were chosen , they used none of the right spoofing methods .  next time they should " spy " a little bit harder .   * * * * = excellent .  one of a kind .  must see .   * * * = entertaining .  worth the price of admission .   * * = fair .  nothing much special .   * = what were they thinking ? ? 
pos@ expand the final fifteen minutes of home alone into a feature-length film and you've got baby's day out--an agreeably amusing children's comedy about a bumbling band of kid kidnappers who are unwittingly outwitted by an innocent infant .  the plot tracks a trio of crooks-posed-as-photographers ( mantegna , pantoliano , haley ) who steal nine-month-old bennington august cottwell iv , aka baby bink , from his old-money home .  but the plan goes awry when baby crawls out an open window and into the streets of downtown chicago !  following the path of his favorite story , called " baby's day out , " baby rides a bus and visits the zoo and winds up at a skyscraper construction site .  while baby stays unscathed , the crooks fare worse for the wear .  the stooges get hit by boards and dropped from roofs and , of course , suffer multiple crotch injuries .   ( john wayne bobbitt should probably steer clear of this one . )  like he did in planes , trains , and automobiles , john hughes again demonstrates his mastery of the simple set-up and extended execution .  here , he's aided and abetted by a director , patrick read johnson , whose choreography could rival a coen brother .  best bit : baby crawling across a busy city street .  baby's day out has only two emotions--awww and ouch--and the actors play them accordingly .  forget the cartoon concern of lara flynn boyle or cynthia nixon , disposable as mom and nanny , respectively , the ones to watch are the ones who are wincing .  joe mantegna is a great head stooge , barking lines like " that little doo-doo machine is my retirement money . "  brian haley has a great scene with a gorilla , while joe pantolianto plays curly to mantegna's moe .   * he * is funny .  needless to say , twins adam and jacob warton are adorable beyond belief . 
neg@ among multitude of erotic thrillers , that had been released in the early 1990s , woman of desire is interesting only because it was directed by robert ginty , star of the b-grade action films of the previous decade .  those who tend not to be nostalgic about 1980s can find very good reason in the type of movies that made ginty the star .  as director , ginty did very little to improve that impression .  the protagonist of the movie is jack ( played by jeff fahey ) , yacht skipper that falls madly in love with christina ford ( played by bo derek ) .  however , she has relationship with rich and powerful jonathan ashby ( steven bauer ) .  one stormy night , the tragedy occurs and jack is accused of rape and murder .  however , his good friend walter j . hill ( robert mitchum ) happens to be very good lawyer , so jack might even prove his innocence in the end .  belonging more to the genre of courtroom drama than erotic thriller , woman of desire distinguishes itself from similar films by having almost all characters behaving like total idiots .  unfortunately , this film isn't comedy and any laugh is unintentional .  the characters are totally antipathetic and irritating and soon we stop caring what would happen to them .  the actors that play them don't help either .  that is especially the case with jeff fahey , whose jack is so stupid that even the character played by fahey in lawnmower man looks like a genius in comparison .  his partner bo derek , on the other hand , shows that she didn't age enough to cease being the sex goddess , but that is small compensation for her apparent lack of acting talents .  ginty , on the other hand , tries to bring some life in the movie by using many flashbacks and strange angles of shooting , but in the end it gets only irritating to the already bored and dissatisfied viewer . 
pos@  " you'll go ape over tarzan because it's more fun than a barrel of monkeys ! "  okay , there's the quote in case disney wants to put something in their ads for the movie .  disney's latest animated feature throws us right into the action from the very beginning , skipping the usual main title sequence and putting us on pitching waves as a small family attempts to escape from a sinking ship .  father , mother , and infant somehow make it to shore amidst a rousing song by phil collins , and have soon built a treehouse which would impress the swiss family robinson .  it's amazing , the kinds of things you can do when you work to a soundtrack .  before you know it , an unfortunate set of circumstances put the baby in the hands of kala ( glenn close ) , a mother ape who recently lost her own baby to a predatory leopard .  against the wishes of her mate and family leader , kerchak ( lance henricksen ) , she takes on the infant boy as her own .  tarzan is not so much a story about a human boy surviving in the african jungles as it is about one who does not really fit in either humanity or the wild .  much of tarzan's young life is spent trying to become one of the apes in the eyes of his peers and his " father , " which occasionally gets him into trouble no matter how well-meant his attempts .  all he's looking for is acceptance , perhaps a goal easily identifiable by young viewers , but one which will ring true with a lot of adults .  when you really think about it , this story fits right into the disney formula of the outcast that triumphs in the end .  look back on past disney animated features and you'll see the trend .  growing up , tarzan ( voiced by alex d . linz as a child , and by tony goldwyn as an adult ) has a couple of friends .  one is an ape named terk ( rosie o'donnell ) , and the other is a paranoid hypochondriac of an elephant named tantor ( wayne knight ) .  both provide the requisite comic relief ( timon and poombah from the lion king immediately come to mind ) and perform the usual hijinks as prescribed by the disney mold .  i'm beginning to think anyone can write the screenplay for one of these films .  just fill in the blanks !  can you see it ?   " now we have to have a couple of zany friends for out hero who might get him into mischief , but cover for him or come to his rescue when he needs it .  we've already had a fish and a crab , and we've had a candle and a teapot , a genie and a dog , a few stone statues . . . . have  we had an ape and an elephant yet ?  well , there we go ! "  of course , there's gotta be romance somewhere along the line , so jane ( minnie driver ) gets introduced about halfway through .  together with her father dr . porter ( nigel hawthorne ) and the big game hunter clayton ( brian blessed ) , jane is on an expedition to find and study the wild gorillas of africa .  she discovers the man raised by apes and is enchanted almost immediately , and soon shares an amusing version of the compulsory " you tarzan , me jane " scene .  thankfully , those aren't the exact words .  however , i found it distracting that tarzan is going " ohh ohh ee ee " one second and then tells jane his name in this manly voice with perfect diction .  how does he tell his name to another ape ?   " ohh ohh ee - tarzan - ee ee ohh ? "  well , regardless of my picky nature , the romance actually works as only disney romance can : purely contrived , but for some reason rather believable .  but hey , tarzan's a young adult .  do you think he dated a few of the female apes before meeting jane ?  isn't that illegal in most countries ?  oh , well .  i don't think disney will be using my quote anymore .  tarzan departs from the usual disney feature in that this one is not a musical .  there's lots of music to be sure , but not a single character song in the whole hour and a half of running time .  we instead get more of a phil collins concert , as no less than five of his original songs are used as interlude material .  this isn't really a bad thing , as the songs are very high-energy and catchy ( i found myself singing one to myself for most of the following day ) ; it's just different .  do yourself a favor and see this film in a theater with a good sound system , because the music will come through astonishingly well and really enhance the movie .  with each new feature , disney animation gets even better .  not necessarily by leaps and bounds , but since they put out a new film each year , a steady rate of improvement is apparent , and this definitely shows in tarzan .  there are a couple of scenes where the animation achieves a near 3-d effect , and a number of scenes which feature tarzan moving through the trees are absolutely dizzying .  the way he slides down tree limbs and trunks is very reminiscent of skateboarding and rollerblading maneuvers , and had me thinking this isn't just tarzan , it's " extreme tarzan . "  however , tarzan does not seem to have what i call its " chandelier scene , " which is the one scene to which the animators have chosen to devote an inordinate amount of effort , utilizing a computer-assisted process that makes the animation absolutely breathtaking .  lasting but a few seconds at most , it's been the signature of nearly every disney animated feature since beauty and the beast , in which the castle ballroom chandelier was rendered in stunning detail .  as usual , the voice talent is up to snuff , convincingly make you believe in the convictions of animated characters .  the one poor choice in casting , however , was rosie o'donnell .  going into the film , i didn't know she was even a part of it , but when terk started talking , i recognized her voice immediately .  her performance was fine , but through the rest of the film i kept thinking , " that's no boy ape , that rosie o'donnell . "  distracting to say the least .  i'll admit i've never read the edgar rice burroughs story " tarzan of the apes , " so i couldn't tell you how true this film stays to the book .  but unless you're a purist , you should have few objections to this film .  with solid performances , action , adventure , a bit of romance , and great music and animation , tarzan should appeal to the kids and to the kid in all of us .  note : when i wrote my review of mulan a year ago , i went off on the promotional and merchandising tie-ins prevalent with the release of a disney animated feature .  this time , i'll just say that i went to mcdonald's yesterday to treat myself to a mcflurry , and tarzan was on the cup .  'nuff said . 
neg@ numerous comparisons can be made with this movie to past sci-fi , suspense thrillers .  soldier is a multi ? crossbreed between the likes of terminator , aliens and offspring .  the problem with such mixed genes is that the final product is a real mongrel ? not well made and should have been put down before production got off the ground .  besides this , the action is mediocre when compared to the standard action flicks of this day and age .  the fight scenes between jason scott lee and kurt russell seem laboured , slow and sluggish , and could have done with better choreography .  russell who is usually a good actor in b-grade action flicks is unusually hampered by his character ? sergeant todd , who seems more like a sergeant toad .  besides having almost no dialogue , his character appears stunted , zombie-like which is in line with his screen persona , but scores little points of empathy with the audience .  this movie has not made me change my opinion about director paul anderson , whose last epic event horizon has left an unusually bitter taste in my mouth .  although this movie does not come anywhere close to the strangeness of former , it is still a long way from anything considered desirable . 
pos@ capsule : suprisingly more of a comedy than a straight action flick , which isn't necessarily a bad thing .  not exactly oscar caliber , but one helluva bullet-riddled good time .  extended review : you know , i remember when hitmen were evil , murderous scum .  alas , the times are a-changin' .  in a recent string of movies , hitmen are suddenly wise- cracking , fun-loving killers-with-hearts .  this brings us to hong kong director kirk wong's first american feature , the big hit .  oddly enough , about the same time last year a similar film , grosse point blank , was released .  advertised as a quirky comedy with hints of action , it turned out to have a suprising dosage of it .  the big hit is quite the opposite .  it was hyped as " the new film from producer john woo " , so one would it expect lots of stylized killing and action .  however , there's a sore lack of it , which is about the only thing wrong with the big hit .  the film starts out with mel smiley and his cohorts doing a job on a white slaver .  mel , played by mark wahlberg in a dopey , milquetoast role , is a killing machine ; he flips , spins , even breakdances whilst popping caps .  sadly , he doesn't get a chance to do much of it .  except for the beginning set piece and the last 20 twenty minutes or so , the film is in comedy mode .  the action , at least what there is of it , is prime cut stuff .  wong , after numerous hong kong features , makes quite a nice u . s . debut .  however , his pacing is a bit off , with the action sequences only bookending the movie and not lasting long enough .  they start off electrifying and fresh , but just kinda stop .  normally , this would hamper a movie to the point of being unenjoyable .  luckily , we have ben ramsey's screenplay , a bitingly funny piece of work .  the only problem is there might be too much humor , one joke makes you laugh so hard you miss the next few .  some of best gags include an oriental film maker down on his luck and one of mel's hitmen pals that has just discovered onanism .  the only problem is how some of the minor characters are handled , some being there only for a laugh , which sometimes works , sometimes doesn't .  overall , the big hit may have it's flaws , but it makes up for them in a stylishly directed , gut-wrenchingly funny joyride .  definately one of the better ways to spend two hours . 
neg@  ( dreamworks skg ) running time : 2 hours starring robert duvall , tea leoni and elijah wood directed by mimi leder the first of the two asteroid movies coming out this year ( the second is the macho armageddon ) is actually a dull affair .  elijah wood plays leo biederman , who during astronomy class discovers that a large asteroid is heading for earth .  tea leoni plays a ( rather crap ) news reporter , jenny lerner , who soon discovers about this asteroid through a very long winded and boring way , and robert duvall plays the leader of a space crew , spurgeon tanner , who are planning to blow the asteroid out of the path of earth .  also featuring is morgan freeman as the president , and maximilian schell and vanessa redgrave as jenny's father and mother .  while many people will walk into the film expecting a big special effects fest with the asteroid blowing everything up ( as the trailers seem to promise ) , the film is actually more of a character study , if a very poor one .  the main problem is that there are too many characters in the film , and not enough time to explore them all .  only the space crew are given any depth , jenny lerner , leo and the president are surprisingly 2d , and we never get to know these characters .  and because i couldn't care for them , i didn't really give a crap if the asteroid killed them or not .  the script by bruce joel rubin and michael tolkin is horribly simple , and never really makes any interesting statements .  mimi leder , the former er director and director of the average the peacemaker ( 1996 ) , again directs in a ho-hum style , and never really gets any emotion out of a scene , which is a shame .  the cast are seemingly on autopilot , although tea leoni does gives a rather good performance , even if she acts a bit too dorky for her own good .  she seems uncommonly stupid for a journalist .  robert duvall is on autopilot with a underwritten role , he just seems to be in this film for the money .  elijah wood , one of the best child actors working today , is surprisingly average , although his choice of roles lately haven't exactly been brilliant ( i . e .  flipper , 1996 ) .  his role is also vastly underwritten .  morgan freeman , again , is utterly wasted with a ridiculously underwritten role .  like duvall , he just seems to be in the film for the money .  the supporting cast are all o . k , none making much of an impression .  ok , so deep impact may have messed up character wise , but surely the special effects are good ?  well , yes and no .  although the special effects should be impressive , with a massive tidal wave destroying new york , the special effects look like , well , special effects .  sadly , the waves looks like it's been drawn on computer , and doesn't look too good at all .  surprising really , when the effects are done by industrial light & magic , who did the effects for the lost world and twister .  in the end , deep impact is a wasted opportunity .  what could of been a moving movie with good effects turns out to be a dud in both characters and effects .  the 2 hours the film had could have been used to much greater effect .  once again , dreamworks has churned out another average movie .  let's hope armageddon is a bit better .  overall rating= review by david wilcock web space provided by geocities 
pos@ no matter what you suspect , this isn't your usual action thriller .  the usual suspects is an intelligent crime mystery story from up-and-coming director bryan singer .  it's one of those movies that , after everything is revealed rapid-fire at the end , you immediately want to rewind and watch again because earlier scenes take on a new light .  plot twists a-go-go are what you get here -- i gave up trying to figure out the mystery of keyser soze after awhile and just sat back and waited for them to reveal it to me .  keyser soze is a name you'll hear at least a hundred times if you watch the usual suspects and for good reason .  it's not only the name of the mysterious ( and possibly even mythical ) crime boss in the movie , it also sums up the movie -- " keyser soze " in latin means " an intelligent crime mystery story from up-and-coming director bryan singer . "  or maybe i shouldn't have bought a foreign-language dictionary from the same company that makes those 99-cent encyclopedias sold in supermarkets .  at the movie's opening , a group of known criminals are brought in for a police lineup , including mcmanus ( stephen baldwin ) , keaton ( gabriel byrne ) , fenster ( benicio del toro ) , buckney ( kevin pollack ) and verbal ( kevin spacey , winner of the best supporting actor academy award{symbol 153 \ f " times new roman " \ s 10 \ h} for his performance in the movie ) .  verbal is so-named because he frequently rambles on about anything or nothing .  he also earns his name as the movie's narrator , spouting memorable lines like " the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist " ( although , obviously , he does exist -- what else could explain kris kross having a comeback in 1996 ? ) while being interrogated by police detective chazz palminteri ( any actor with multiple z's in their name is okay in my book ) .  we see the story unfold as spacey retells it .  the five felons , upon being released from the lineup , get their revenge on the police by exposing a corrupt taxi service -- whereby elite criminals pay to be smuggled through town in cop cars -- and stealing all the money and drugs in the car .  it's a definite case of male bonding for the five criminals , who later find out they were brought together by the unseen keyser soze , who sends a minion to them with an offer they can't refuse .  namely , they have to destroy soze's main competitors in organized crime by infiltrating a ship , shooting a bunch of people , burning all the drugs and stealing $91 million cash .  spacey does a terrific job of bringing his seemingly unintelligent " cripple " character to life and baldwin , byrne , palminteri and the rest make for a good supporting cast .  the usual suspects is one of those movies that deftly mixes scenes of violence and explosions with an underlying sense of mystery and suspense , keeping the viewer guessing until the very end -- and then still leaving a few details open for scrutiny and discussion .  i suppose all that would be cleared up if i really had rewound the movie and watched it again instead of changing the channel and wondering in disbelief what the hell kris kross was doing on mtv .  a different mystery , i guess , which may turn into a _murder_ mystery if that video ever comes on again . . . 
neg@  " ladybugs " is a typical comedy that relies on three supposed guarantees : the pathetic team who beats the champs ; cross dressing ; and the presence of rodney dangerfield .  this picture doesn't play like a comedy for children , so who is it aimed at ?  and why is it told like a 91-minute sit-com instead of a feature film ?  rodney dangerfield stars as chester lee , a total schmuck working at a huge corporation .  he obviously doesn't have a lot of self esteem and thinks he has to kiss up to get ahead , which he does by volunteering to coach the company's girls' soccer team .  what a shock to learn chester and his assistant julie ( jackee ) know absolutely nothing about the game , and the players seem to know even less .  i didn't laugh , but for some reason it didn't annoy me that much .  chester's fiancee bess ( graff ) thinks he got a promotion in addition to the coaching position , and of course she has a slacker for a son who is doing poorly in school and is kicked off the sports teams .  jonathon brandis is a nice surprise as matthew , who agrees to dress up as a girl named martha to help out chester ( probably because the girl he has a crush on plays on the team - what original story ideas ! ) .  what we get is just another retread of the " underdog sports team " mixed with some cross dressing .  unfortunately , the film isn't smart enough to play upon the drag aspect .  in fact , it downplays it so heavily it's totally unbelievable .  could it be any more obvious martha is a boy ?  he only wears a girl's wig , without any makeup , and they don't even give him falsies .  brandis doesn't bother to mimic a girl's voice either .  then there is a pointless scene where chester and matthew shop for a dress , but for what reason ?  martha is only seen on the soccer field , why would they buy a dress for her ?  just when we think the martha character is going to be useful , she disappears , and the story wanders aimlessly looking for a new plot to pick up on .  when bess discovers what's really going on she breaks up with chester , and the relationship is forgotten about and the film focuses on the soccer team and the tension between chester and his boss .  this film could've been less bad had it been the cliche sports comedy , but it feels the need to go off on tangents that are completely unnecessary ( and bad at that ) .  there's just too much of a sit-com feel here , especially during the so-called serious moments , and all the confusion between the characters .  i've seen worse movies than " ladybugs , " but for some reason it contained some sort of bizarre charm , so even when it turns sour it doesn't seem as bad as it is .  dangerfield finally gets his respect in the end , but at what a price . 
pos@ i'm an avid fan of the " alien " saga , so this review is obviously a tad biased ( at least i admitted it ) .  of course , that doesn't mean that i'm gonna be giving this a four-star review or something , because " alien : resurrection , " the fourth film in the cool-as-hell series is not an absolutely amazing film , much like the first two were .  however , it's a very good film which never fails to entertain , and consists of yet another mutation in the style of the series .  in short , i had a good time .   " alien : resurrection " leaves off 200 years after the last one , where our heroine protagonist , ellen ripley ( sigourney weaver ) , the science fiction genre's answer to job , had killed herself after discovering that an alien was inside her body , waiting to pop out like it did to john hurt in the first one .  of course , the last one wasn't very great or anything ( i liked it , though not as much as the first two ) , and more importantly , it wasn't financially successful ( a tawdry 55 million bucks ! ) .  so back we are , with ripley back as a clone , which means we get another little satirical look at cloning ( not that that's a bad thing , but it's becoming a cliche ) .  so she's cloned aboard an even more futuristic-looking ship called " the auriga " by some doctors ( including the necessary bad government guy , dr . wren , played by j . e . freeman , as well as the little-seen dr . gediman , played by none other than brad douriff ) , mainly because they have a version of her with the alien still inside her .  once you get past the fact that you can't figure out where they got her blood ( although i think it might have been from the blood samples taken by charles dance in the third one ) , the film's okay .  also on board are a band of mercenary pirates , including michael wincott , ron perlman , kim flowers , raymond cruz , dominique pinon ( a jeunet sytable ) and . . . winona ryder , who plays analee call , who turns out to have a bit of a secret ( i won't state it , but unless you've been shacking up with salinger for the past two years , you probably know all about it - although it's nicely covered up ) .  there's a bit of a non-sexual-yet-slightly-homoerotic relationship between her and ripley , but it's never really deepened enough .  oh well .  well , as you might have guessed , the alien and its spawn escape and run around the ship .  and it pretty much does away with most of the people on the ship ( including some shocks - dan hedaya , for instance , who's death is comical yet sad since , well , he's dan hedaya ) , and the remaining people ( about 7 or 8 ) are left to try and escape and stop the aliens from doing any major harm since the ship is heading quickly towards earth .  of course , the plot is all balderdash , and just an excuse for some good old " alien " -brand fun .  the real focus of the series seems to be on style , not really substance ( although there's always a bit of it , most notably in " aliens " with the relationship between ripley and the little girl ) .  what's interesting about the series is that each film is stylistically different in its approach .   " alien " is a claustrophobic exercise in quiet frights .   " aliens " is a wild , tense thriller .   " alien 3 " is a bleak , moody piece of semi-noir .   " alien 4 " is kind of like an off-beat french film , filled with lots of humor , and cool scares .  jean-pierre jeunet ( without his usual directing partner , marc caro ) creates a ship filled with the kind of scares films like " das boot " has , with echoes hinting at a possible threat .  the chills in the film are really cool , especially with the music , which is sometimes turned down completely for certain scenes ( there's the most tense surgery scene since " face/off " towards the beginning ) .  and not every chill turns into a bloody mess or anything like that .  this all combined with some good old humor makes this as interesting visually and stylistically as the others .  there are even a couple scenes which just stick out afterwards as being brilliantly executed .  one is the aforementioned surgery scene .  another one takes place between call and ripley , which is just awesome .  the underwater chase scene and the ladder scene afterwards is one of the most tense , thrilling , and jaw-dropping scenes in the entire saga ( with a small allusion to jeunet's earlier film , " delicatessen " ) .  and the way they do in the final alien is hysterically cool ( with a lovely allusion to " goldfinger " ) .  but the best scene in the entire film ( i'm sure i'm not the first to mention it ) takes place when ripley sees all the variations on her as they cloned her ( she has a an " 8 " tatooed on her arm ) .  it might be the most emotionally stimulating scene in the entire saga .  the screenplay by joss whedon is not a great piece of work , as it never really deapens a lot of the characters .  however , it does make us care about most of them , so that when there's very little of them , and it looks like one or more of them may become alien chow , we are pretty scared .  and , yeah , there are some very funny lines ( ripley : " who do i have to fuck to get off this boat ? ! "  johner : " well , i can get you off .  but not this ship . " )  the acting is good all around , with stand-out performances from ron perlman as the male chauvenist pig johner , and leland orser ( the poor bastad in " se7en " who performed the " lust " sin ) as an anxiety-ridden wannabe woody allen who has an alien inside him .  winona ryder is good , but not amazing like she usually is ( although she meshes well with the film ) .  of course , and as usual , sigourney weaver steals the show .  playing a variation on the ripley character ( less emotional , and more rude and bitter ) , she pulls it off while still being utterly lovable .  she's not going to get an oscar nomination like she did for " aliens , " but she's just awesome .  overall , it's a thrilling , entertaining film which doesn't really amaze like the first two , but is much more amazing than the third installment .  the style is the best part of the film , which isn't really a bad thing , but it being the best part takes away from a lot of the depth the film occasionally tries to apply .  but it's entertaining as hell , and it's definitely fit for the " alien " series . 
neg@ every now and then , reviewers are faced with the films that are hard to be properly reviewed .  most of the time it happens with films that leave so overwhelming impact , either good or bad , that in the end reviewers must work hard to express his thoughts or feelings .  but , sometimes it can happen for rather trivial reasons .  i love trouble happened to be one of such occasions for the author of this review .  the impression left by the film wasn't overwhelming - on the contrary , there were hardly any impression at all , since i had real trouble keeping myself awake while watching it .  which surprise me to this day , because the movie theatre was full , i was close to sound speakers , the show wasn't late and i didn't lack sleep before the show .  such things happen very rarely to me , and , after many years , the closest thing to solution to this mystery is probably the quality of the film itself .  the plot revolves around two rival chicago reporters - old peter brackett ( nick nolte ) and young , aspiring sabrina peterson ( julia roberts ) .  two of them are assigned to cover the train collision .  as soon as they meet , they start scooping each other , but during the process they both discover sinister plot involving cancerogenic milk , and also the romantic feelings they have for each other .  the plot in this film is rather secondary to its real raison d' ? tre - romantic pairing reminiscent of classical screwball comedies starring spencer tracy and katharine hepburn .  movie author , director and screenwriter charles shyer , who had some experiences with turning the screwball spirit into modern setting with father of the bride , tries again , this time pairing old nick nolte with young julia roberts .  however , although there is some chemistry between the two , soon it stops to arouse any interest .  it probably happens due to poorly executed genre mix , that collides light-hearted romantic comedy with rather uninteresting plot suitable to pure action thrillers .  shyer as director fails to make the proper transition between the two , and fails in both areas , making the story cliched and predictable .  the end result is rather forgettable effort , which convinced me not to watch movie again .  i'll give it the benefit of the doubt , though . 
pos@ anastasia contains something that has been lacking from all of the recent disney releases . . .   ( especially hercules ) . . .  emotion .  all the wacky characters voiced by celebrities and fantastically animated adventure sequences aren't going to hold anyone's interest unless there is an emotional core to hold it all together .  not since disney's beauty & the beast has there been such a compelling animated film with interesting characters and drama that works .  the story of the romanov family , the rulers of russia , and their downfall begins the film .  anastasia , one of the daughters , narrowly escapes the mad monk rasputin ( voiced by christopher lloyd ) with her grandmother ( voiced by angela landsbury ) .  but anastasia gets lost , and grows up with no memory of her royal origins .  the grandmother lives in paris , hoping to someday find her beloved anastasia , the only member of the family to survive the russian revolution .  a young woman named anya ( voiced by meg ryan ) runs across dimitri ( john cusack ) and vlad ( kelsey grammar ) , who are trying to put together a scheme to create an anastasia to fool the grandmother and get the reward money .  they pick anya to pose as their princes , and of course , it is soon revealed that anya is in fact the lost anastasia .  dimitri realizes that he can never win her love as he is a commoner , and meanwhile , rasputin is not dead , and plots his revenge against the last romanov .  the plot is actually quite well structured .  there are a lot of complexities that may have to be explained to the kids later , but it moves along fast enough that they'll never have time to be bored .  what this really means is that the adults won't be bored by it either .  there is a great deal of banter between anya and dimitri that is very funny , and their relationship develops quite naturally as the film progresses .  there is , of course , lots of comedy for the kids , including rasputin's pet bat , bartok ( hank azaria ) , who is easily the funniest thing in the film .  however , the comical scenes never distract from the drama , but are worked into the plot almost seamlessly .  the animation is gorgeous - the characters seem to come to life through the talented animators .  not since beauty & the beast have animated characters had so much life to them .  even without the voices , they act .  the musical number in paris is a show-stopper , with some of the backgrounds rendered in an impressionist painting style .  as with all recent animated features , there are songs , however , these songs do more than just provide fodder for top-40 singers to get on the radio ( although there are three of them during the end credits ) .  the songs are all very catchy , and advance the plot , instead of just being showpieces ( except for the paris number , but that's so much fun , it's okay . . . ) .  i can't reccomend anastasia highly enough .  it's a wonderful film that ranks right up there with other animated classics .  kids and adults alike will enjoy it , and it's also nice to have a quality animated feature film from another studio besides disney . 
neg@ there was probably a good reason that the warner bros . studio chose not to allow critics to view this steven seagal film when it first opened .  and , after seeing this piece of toxic waste , i now know why .  this movie is by far the worst offering that has hit the screen since possibly those ernest movies years ago .  fire down below centers its story on a little mining town in god's country , somewhere in eastern kentucky .  it's beauty and natural goodness is being slowly destroyed by an uncaring mining magnate ( kris kristopherson , who constantly looks like he wants to kill his agent for getting him this role ) .  it turns out that he's filling the mines throughout kentucky with toxic waste for a tidy profit .  seagal plays jack taggert , an aikido-versed , fighting machine , who is an agent with the epa .  no . . . not the cia nor the fbi nor the nsa .  it's the environmental protection agency .  i had no idea that epa agents were trained to be killers !  taggert is sent to find the perpetrators and to bring them to justice .  written by someone named jeb , i could already envision the stereotypes of incestuous relationships , banjo-picking preachers , and dumb-as-nails rednecks .  but the script puts seagal right smack dab in the middle of all of these scenarios as he tries to discreetly fit in .  seagal's idea of a disguise is a long-length $1000 leather jacket .  but to get closer to the kinfolk , he will fix people's porches for free .  that's another great epa asset - teaching agents how to fix porches .  slow and plodding , this project is a total mess .  the sometimes allure of watching seagal is watching him outmaneuver enemies that outnumber and outgun him like in under seige .  here , his bravado basically turns into bullyness .  townsfolk who are foolish enough to challenge seagal are quickly subdued .  fight scenes are quick and senseless and offers no enjoyment value whatsoever .  and his soap box message wears thin within the first 15 minutes .  the most annoying moment comes when he barges into the middle of a sunday church ceremony , gets behind the pulpit , and beseeches the townsfolk to take control of their lives and to help clean up the environment .  but the epitome of how moralistically mushy this film gets happens when the person responsible for the toxic dumping , kristopherson , meets up with seagal .  kristopherson asks seagal how much it will take for him to go away .  seagal gallantly replies : " i'll leave when you take the poison from the streams and the earth . "  i was expecting patriotic music to start blasting and a show of fireworks in the background .  this is truly nothing more than a pompous showcase for seagal's righteousness and narcissistic arrogance .  seagal has been vanguard in trying to bring a new genre into the filmplace , that of the enviro-thriller ( on deadly ground ) .  however , the message will never come across through poorly developed vehicles like this .  still , i believe in preserving mother earth , so save your $5 and please donate it instead to some worthy environmentally conscious charity . 
pos@ in the grand scheme of mel gibson movies , payback was better than conspiracy theory , but not as good as braveheart or lethal weapon .  in other words , it's a decent couple of hours of entertainment , but 20 years from now if a they compile a list of mel gibson's greatest hits , payback probably won't be on it .  gibson plays a crook who gets double crossed by his partner after they heist a payroll .  mel's partner needed the money to pay off a mob debt .  so he puts a couple of bullets in mel , leaving him for dead , and goes on to pay off his creditors .  but , mel isn't dead ( it would be a real short movie if he was ) and he certainly isn't happy .  to make matters worse , he wants his money back and is willing to go to any lengths to accomplish this feat .  his ex partner has already used it to pay off the mobsters , so mel goes after the mob to get it back .  payback is often a very violent film .  to its credit , there are a few scenes that could have been very graphic , but the director ( i'm not sure which one -- more about that in a second ) made the choice to let the audience use their imagination instead of subjecting us to the usual gratuitous gore found in many films .  the film appears a bit disjointed in places , which is understandable considering producer / star gibson wasn't thrilled with how the film turned out and wanted parts of it re-shot .  when the director refused , another one was brought in to do the re-shoot .  so as a result while the final product is apparently better than the original ( although personally i would love to see the original version for comparisons sake ) it does get a bit of a choppy feel to it towards the end .  it's always tough to make a film where the main character is a villain , unless that person has some redeeming qualities .  in this case , gibson's character has few redeeming qualities .  but hey , its mel , so even when he is killing people in cold blood we are still rooting for him .  my guess is that if that you put some other johnny bananas actor in this role , the audience would not be quite as responsive .  gibson is gibson , whether he is playing a suicidal cop or a stone cold killer , he does a good job .  he almost guarantees that no matter what else happens in the rest of the movie at least the audience is going to get one good performance .  this time out mel is surrounded by a good supporting cast , including maria bello ( as his love interest ) , william devane and kris kristofferson ( as mod bosses ) .  the man who steals the show and unfortunately doesn't have a real big part is james coburn ( as yet another mobster ) .  if i had one big disappointment in this film , it would be that coburn didn't have a bigger role .  in the end , payback is a fairly solid action thriller , just not in quite the same league as some of mel gibson's other work . 
neg@ vampires starts out almost in the style of a spaghetti western with an attack on a small homestead in new mexico .  the house has a nest of vampires and jack crow ( james woods ) is leading a team of vampire hunters in to clean them out .  while the initial imagery is a little over-dramatic , it gives way to what is a fairly decent action sequence .  that is enough action to last us a while and we could , director john carpenter would let us , get to a story line .  but it is not very long and there is not much plot until the next big action scene .  then there is only a bit more of plot before the next action scene after that .  the plot is kept to a minimum and the interesting ideas in the plot really get the short end .  and that is something of a pity because the film , based on the book vampire$ by john steakley , gives us a myth for the origins of vampires and explains why vampires are so intertwined with religious imagery .  this could be an interesting departure from the standard vampire film , but carpenter decides to tell us about it rather than to show it .  what carpenter saves his serious screen time for a sequence of spectacular fights between hunters and vampires .  there is a lot of fighting and lots of gore .  anything intriguing is kept to a minimum to so it does not get in the way of pleasing the action film fans .  this has not always been carpenter's style .  his 1981 version of the thing has action but also challenges the viewer to do a little thinking about the film's central science fictional question .  jack crow heads a vampire swat team , cleaning up nests of vampires with high-tech spears and crossbows .  in the early part of the film his team is wiped out by a particularly mean vampire valek ( thomas ian griffith ) who has been tipped off to who crow is .  now crow team is gone and he is down to himself and his sidekick tony montoya ( daniel baldwin ) .  to make matters worse , he does not know the people on his own side , tony and his backers , he can trust .  meanwhile jack is sure the vampires are looking for something that must be hidden somewhere here in new mexico .  if this is sounding like a very tired police corruption plot with a few obvious substitutions , that's exactly what it is .  the same story looks just as well with two partner cops looking for a gang of hood who are themselves looking for a packet of heroin .  but carpenter goes against a familiar principle of film : show people , don't tell them .  just about everything in the plot other than the fights we are told about in the dialog and not shown .  fundamental questions in the plot like where does crow get his funding , why are the vampires in new mexico--what do they want and why do they want it , what is the connection of the vampires and the catholic church , how did crow come to be a vampire hunter and why devote his life to it ?  the answers to any of these questions could have been dramatized , but instead are revealed through dialog .  now if all this was not bad enough , carpenter misuses the james wood persona .  woods plays a particular sort of cool lowlife very well .  but carpenter leads off the film by having woods do some sergio-leone- style mythic posturing .  while his crew prepares for an attack he stands staring fixedly through shades at the house that will be his target .  woods does not work as a larger than life mythic hero .  that is not his style and it just does not work very well .  there are some simple things that carpenter should be looking for as director that he misses .  in one scene we are looking at a motel room with dead people on the floor .  one female corpse is on the floor in front of a chair so that there is about an inch of daylight between her and the chair .  as the actress breathes the gap widening and narrowing makes it obvious her arm is moving up and down .  one also wonders how the existence of vampires is kept secret .  these vampires do not maintain a low profile .  there are arguably logical flaws in the film .  there is some question in my mind whether carpenter has a consistent policy on what effect bullets have on vampires .  it would take some rationalization to explain why in some scenes sunlight has a dramatic effect on vampires , yet in a scene toward the end a vampire can walk under a burned roof that lets him be swept by beams of sunlight .  i suspect that the book on which this film was based was better thought out .  while i might recommend this film to an action audience i would say that what i look for in a vampire film vampires rates a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale .  perhaps i will read the book . 
pos@ accepting his oscar as producer of this year's best picture winner , saul zaentz remarked that his cup runneth over .  one could almost say the same about his much-prized film .  rarely is the screen so overflowing with potent imagery , symbolism , ideas and metaphors , complex and literate storytelling , all possessed of an intelligence that invites -- even demands -- constant scrutiny , an acuity of perception and observation that must somehow yield the truth .  in short , the antithesis of all things hollywood .  yet this surfeit of signals is made to serve a rather pale and thinly realized love story whose emotional impact is as dry as a desert wind .  ralph fiennes is the title character , an amnesiac burn victim whose gradual return to memory , and particularly the memory of love , is the ostensible focus of the film .  but despite the use of numerous flashbacks to help put the pieces of this personal puzzle together , we never learn enough about the man to feel much empathy for him .  his emotional life before the story begins is an essential clue that remains withheld .  the same can easily be said for every other character in the film , of which there are too many .  juliette binoche's nurse comes as close as this film gets to an emotional heart .  at least we learn early on that she is scarred by the deaths of those close to her , and so we understand why she is eager to escape the company of her comrades in order to seek refuge in the convalescence of a mysterious , disfigured , dying stranger .  even this information is imparted so quickly and in such cursory fashion , however , that it verges on the comical .  with so many characters enjoying so little screen time , the film's 160 minutes can be taxing .  yet there is something so captivating about the sensibility behind the camera that i couldn't help but feel that greatness was in the air .  hints of it were everywhere -- in a man who hates ownership but wants desperately to possess his lover ; in ancient cave paintings of swimmers copied casually by a modern-day swimmer in the sahara ; in the way the shifting sands of time obliterate everything more completely than a world war .  there is enough latent meaning to supply college film students with paper topics for years .  but ultimately the emotional truths writer-director anthony minghella was grasping for were never revealed .  in the end , i was left with the impression that i had witnessed quite an oxymoron : a haunting bore .  bore is perhaps too strong a word .  but after drinking in the rich production values , the cup remains only slightly over half-full . 
neg@  " the animal " is a marginally inspired comedy that only manages to lumber along , generating just enough momentum to keep it from stalling .  it's clunky and slow , like watching an 18-wheeler trying to accelerate up a hill .  there are certainly better things you can do with your time .  actually , if you've seen the trailer , then you already know the plot and have seen its funniest moments .  the story centers on bland marvin ( rob schneider ) , who is an evidence clerk at the local police department that yearns to be a real officer .  but he's afflicted with loser-itis .  dogs attack him , neighbors torment him , children bully him , and his co-workers ignore him .  truthfully , with his bad haircut ( seemingly modeled after weird al yankovic , little richard , and giant poodles ) and his unenthusiastic demeanor , we'd probably throw tomatoes at him just for fun .  this is actually bad because you can't like a character if you can't develop sympathy for him .  we never do , and it may be just as well that he drives off a cliff and plummets to the canyon floor .  however , marvin is found by an eccentric doctor ( michael caton ) who uses a radical and experimental procedure to save him , implanting our doofus with various animal parts and organs .  as a result , marvin develops heightened senses and increased agility and speed .  he can smell drugs hidden anywhere on a body , swim with the speed of a dolphin , and can run as fast as a cheetah .  imagine the comedic possibilities that arise from this operation .  with his enhanced abilities , he could now reap vengeance on all those who have shunned him .  however , the spirit of the film takes a raunchy turn , and instead , marvin spends most of his time trying to subdue or satiate his voracious appetite and his animalistic , sexual urges .  goats beware !  he also chases cats , urinates to mark his territory , or growls at his enemies .  what he should've done was stick his head in the sand like an ostrich .  equally tenuous is its other running joke , which involves one of his friends ( guy torry ) who constantly complains that everyone is treating him too nicely because he's black .   " it's reverse racism , " he declares as he blows smoke into the faces of strangers but none of them says anything .  this element doesn't work the first time it's mentioned , and it becomes increasingly trite with every recurrence .  you don't have to be as wise as an owl to realize that " the animal " is tame .  if there's any reason to see this film , it's to see colleen haskell who makes her big screen debut .  remember her ?  she was voted off in week 11 of the 13-week program , " survivor . "  here , she plays marvin's sunny love interest .  while her role required very little actual acting , she seemed very comfortable ( even when marvin licks the side of her face like a lapping dog . . . yuck ! ) .  with her adorable disposition , radiant smile , and playful innocence , she could be a meg ryan in the making .  it's too bad that she's in such a mediocre offering 
pos@ the sheer horrific audacity of the nazi plan to exterminate the jews of europe is almost incomprehensible .  people may make documentaries about it for another hundred years and still not understand the organized , methodical hatred .  five concentration camp survivors from the last days of world war ii tell their stories in the last days , the first documentary from steven spielberg's survivors of the shoah visual history foundation .  the five interviewees are linked by their hungarian ancestry .  as the introduction explains , even as germany started to lose the war , the nazis stepped up their extermination of the jews in europe .  in 1944 , hungary had the last big population of jews within germany's reach , and they became the last target of hitler's " final solution . "  each of the five tells his or her story .  their stories are intercut chronologically , starting from normal life in pre-war hungary .  they recall the nazi invasion of hungary , being sent to " work " camps and their realization that they were actually in death camps .  they recall their horrible , precarious lives in auschwitz and buchenwald ; the deaths of their family and friends ; their loss of hope .  each recalls his or her unfathomable , eventual liberation .  and finally , the last days shows their cathartic , pained , modern-day return to their old homes and the camps .  needless to say , their stories are horrifying , amazing , and emotionally draining .  by themselves , the stories would be forceful testaments , but by cutting them in parallel , their impact is multiplied by five .  the last days is a talking-heads style documentary -- it's mostly pictures of people telling their stories , intercut with period photographs and newsreel footage .  in this kind of movie it's almost impossible to get archival pictures from the same time and place being discussed on-screen , but director james moll made a better effort than most at finding specific , or at least relevant , images to go with his subjects' narration .  the liner notes ( one of the many nice features of this dvd ) indicate that there is some never-before-seen historical footage in the last days .  it's not clear which scene it is .  it could be one of two that i hadn't seen before , both powerful .  one is rare color footage , shot by an american , of piles of victims in cattle cars .  there is something jarring , something unsettling about seeing the pictures in color , when so much of the footage from world war ii is in black and white .  another segment shows walking skeletons ; survivors who are so starved that they hardly look human anymore .  there has been a glut of holocaust movies and i was skeptical that a new documentary would have anything new to say .  but by focusing on hungarian jews during the last days of the war , moll told a specific part of the story in a new way , in greater detail .  and i'm glad he did because his careful filmmaking stands up well compared to other movies on the same subject .  the transfer to dvd is rich and beautiful .  x-mozilla-status : 0009f words for a holocaust documentary , but some of the interviews take place in europe in late spring , when skies are blue and trees are green .  also , the movie was shot on 35mm film ( and not video ! ) ,  so the richness and detail are impeccable .  the dvd's features are plentiful and well-chosen .  there is a theatrical trailer for the movie , which is a great introduction to the subject matter .  there are about fifty still photos , both from the production crew and from the private collections of the survivors .  also , the disc has two complete versions of the movie ( widescreen and full screen ) , both on the same side .  one of the more interesting dvd features is an outtake segment for each of the survivors ( plus one for the crew ) .  you'd think outtakes would be inappropriate in a holocaust documentary , but they're not bloopers .  instead , they are solid , moving segments that were probably cut from the film only for length .  one of them continues a confrontation that was only touched on lightly in the film .  renee firestone ( one of the five ) spoke on camera with dr . hans m ? nch , a german doctor who ran the medical clinic at auschwitz .  firestone was aggressive , questioning the doctor about what his children thought .  the doctor was evasive and clearly uncomfortable .  another of the outtakes showed bill basch saying a prayer for his dead friends at auschwitz .  he ends his prayer by saying " . . . forgive me for surviving . "  it's ambitious to shoot a documentary on 35mm film .  it's ambitious to make it on a subject that has saturated cable , television , and movies .  it's ambitious to make it 54 years after the events it covers .  but the last days handles all these potential obstacles very well .  it's only fitting that the dvd , with its wealth of interesting and relevant features , would also be ambitious and successful . 
neg@ robin williams has the rarest of gifts : the ability to rise above the most inept material and suffuse it with his irreverent style .  overwhelmingly , his worst films are pleasantly diverting at worst and enjoyable at best ( with the notable exception of flubber ) .  so when i , the one person who has refused to abandon him despite patch adams , tell you that not even williams can save his latest project , you know it's in trouble .  jakob the liar is a confused , muddled little movie ; a generically " uplifting " film with a fundamental contradiction : the message it delivers is depressing as opposed to inspiring and the movie doesn't realize it .  williams plays jakob haim , a jew imprisoned in a polish ghetto during world war ii .  one night he wanders outside after curfew and is promptly sent to the office of a high-ranking german officer for his punishment .  jakob gets off easy and he gets to hear approximately 30 seconds of a radio broadcast .  the announcement ( in english , but punctuated by a triumphant " heil hitler ! " ) is that russian troops are only miles away from jakob's ghetto .  liberation ! he thinks .  the next day , jakob tells the news to his closest friend , a volatile prize fighter named misha ( liev schreiber ) , who despite being sworn to secrecy passes the message along .  soon , it is a common assumption in the ghetto that jakob has a radio hidden in his home -- a crime punishable by death .  this is absurdly false , but the more jakob tells the people of the ghetto this , the more convinced they become that he is abreast of the latest developments in the war that is to decide their fate .  the danger , of course , is that the germans allegedly have informants throughout the ghetto , and rumors about the radio can get out and put jakob in great danger .  in a curiously irrelevant subplot , jakob finds a 11-year old girl who has separated from her parents and decides to hide her in his small home .  apparently he is afraid that she will be discovered , and goes to great length to make sure of that -- just why the idea frightens him is never made clear .  he and the girl build an uninvolving , generic relationship that never goes anywhere and is as irrelevant at the end as it was in the beginning .  the moral of the story is that hope is the best medicine .  but jakob the liar forgets that the hope that jakob brings to his ghetto is false .  such hope inevitably leads to expectations of its realization and when those expectations aren't met , the results are far worse than if there was no hope .  that's the film's biggest detriment : it is based on a false assumption and thus comes off as painfully false .  it's never moving because it doesn't give us anything to be moved by .  jakob the liar fails to tug any heartstrings which destroys its purpose for existing .  robin williams doesn't inject the film with life , as a matter of fact , he seems a little out of it , as if crippled by his fake accent .  he is stragely unenthusiastic ; his character is one who spreads hope but his performance is lifeless , hopeless .  not since good will hunting has he abandoned his signature style to this extent ; this isn't the robin williams we know and love .  in good will hunting he became a serious actor and won an oscar for it .  here , he is more of a wannabe serious actor ; an impostor .  jakob the liar will be compared with last year's life is beautiful because it is being marketed as a " holocaust comedy " .  it's not a comedy .  it tries , sometimes , but it rarely works .  is it a melodrama ?  a war movie ?  a character study ?  no , no , and no .  jakob the liar is the kind of movie that can't be placed into a category ; not because it covers so many different genres but because it fails at just about every one it attempts . 
pos@ a miracle of filmmaking , " some like it hot " is a brilliant film , and maybe the foremost example of slapstick comedy brought to screen with clever sight gags and plot twists .  it is the pinnacle of writer-director billy wilder's career , a stunning feat considering the vast catalogue of films he had helped make .  jerry ( lemmon ) and joe ( curtis ) are two stage musicians who go from gig to gig , trying to earn enough money to feed themselves .  one night , as they're playing at a banned prohibition speakeasy , the place is raided .  as it turns out , the owner , spats columbo ( george raft ) was ratted out by toothpick charlie ( george e . stone ) .  several weeks later , on valentine's day , jerry and joe go to a garage to pick up a car and end up witnessing a gangland murder of charlie by columbo in a parking garage .  eager to escape , the duo are forced to take a job in florida with all expenses paid .  the only catch . . its a girls band .  so josephine ( curtis ) and daphne ( lemmon ) , make their way onto the train and go to florida .  on the way there , they meet sugar kane ( monroe ) , a bombshell singer who is looking for love .  jerry and joe immediately fall for the singer , but there's two problems : 1 ) they're in drag , and 2 ) millionaire osgood fielding ( joe e . brown ) falls madly in love with daphne .  what follows in pure hysteria , still complicated further by the arrival of spats columbo to florida for the " italian opera lovers festival " .  tony curtis is hysterical as joe/josephine , especially in his preposterous attempts to woo sugar .  marilyn monroe , in a wonderfully comic performance , is sugar , providing incredible timing and sex appeal , along with true sincerity .  the scenes , however , are all stolen by either brown or lemmon .  lemmon is hysterical as daphne .  cast as the less rational one , lemmon's performance is ridiculously crazy , it is disorder in the style all billy wilder's .  brown is particularly hilarious as osgood , as we are treated to the finest kind of comedic irony .  he manages to use lemmon's ingenious performance as a springboard for an even loonier performance as a completely eccentric millionaire .  every set-piece is flawless , as wilder brilliantly changes settings constantly , and uses every comic trick in the book to make his picture .  wilder's script is stunning , as he carefully combines gangsters , cross-dressing , romance , sex , music , gender roles , and social taboos in a riotous blend of wit and oddball craziness .  wilder manages to create scenes of utter hysteria , so pitch-perfect that the audience is dying of laughter with the last comic piece , the final line of this absolutely incredible film .  wilder's is dead wrong when he says nobody's perfect : billy wilder is , especially when he makes something this disastrously funny .  nobody's perfect but billy wilder . 
neg@ the general's daughter is a heartless , absurd film , a movie so hopelessly dedicated to its inane plot that it forgets entirely about its own characters .  director simon west treats issues like rape and sexual fetish with ham-handed obscenity , creating a film that banks almost entirely on exploitation and offensive pseudo-depth .  what's worse is that the movie is haphazardly glued together by two characters who are neither interesting nor sympathetic -- the ridiculous story requires them to do unbelievable things in the interest of reaching a dark conclusion in a sudden rain storm .  john travolta finds himself in the middle of the mess , playing warrant officer paul brenner ; brenner is assigned to find the murderer and rape of captain elizabeth campbell ( leslie stefanson ) , daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) .  brenner is teamed up with ex-spouse sarah sunderland ( madeline stowe ) , and they check out all the suspects on the base , including elizabeth's mentor , colonel moore ( james woods ) .  soon , it becomes apparent that elizabeth was into kinky sexual stuff , but the question comes down to why -- and , of course , who .  ebert's law of the economy of characters can be applied here ; one interesting thing i noted is that not only are all the characters suspects at some point ( including the two protagonists ) , but almost all of them end up directly intertwined with the story .  perhaps i should have issued a spoiler alert before mentioning that , but it's painfully obvious from the beginning that everyone in the film is hiding something .  on a story level , the general's daughter is ineptly constructed .  the film , adapted by christopher bertolini and william goldman from nelson demille's novel ( which was apparently based on a true story ) , plods along to its conclusion , filling in the blanks with stale , unrealistic dialogue and " shocking " plot developments .  having not read the novel , it's difficult to determine if these problems are the fault of the adapters or the original author , but i suppose they all are guilty to some degree .  scene after scene stumbles with pointless insincerity ; minutes after finding the dead young woman , brenner and sunderland engage in sarcastic dialogue , which includes endless strings of forced lines .   ( sunderland actually asks brenner , " why was she killed ? "  to which i would have answered , " if i knew , then the movie would already be over . " )  only after we've spent twenty minutes or so with these characters do we learn that they have a sordid history together ; this angle , though apparently present to develop their characters , is never explored .  not that it really matters , since the characters consistently do ludicrous things for no other reason than to drive the plot .  in one scene , sunderland is attacked by a man in a mask .  she sees one of his rings , and she and brenner find the man later that day based on the ring .  instead of questioning him like as they would a real suspect , they take him to brenner's houseboat , beat him up , and pour hot coffee in his lap .  this scene really pushed me over the edge , not because it's gratuitous and mean-spirited , but because it illustrates the film's complete disregard for the characters and the audience .  it was impossible for me to feel anything for these people beyond this scene , mostly because nothing they do comes as a surprise .  i realized that these constructs on screen aren't actually characters , but devices present only to serve the story .  this would have been bad enough without the west's need to hose his movie down in tasteless images of rape and sexual misconduct .  compelling films about sexual crimes don't spend a lot of time on rape flashbacks , and they certainly don't show as much skin and sweat as a typical pornographic picture .  these scenes are not the least bit powerful ; on the contrary , they're intended simply to provide the audience with the necessary resentment for the villain , whomever that may turn out to be .  in addition , the movie treats sexual fetishes -- and sadomasochism in particular -- as if it's a perversion of everything we know to be pure .  this standpoint is certainly allowed , but only in accompaniment with well-developed themes to back it up .  as it is , the film forgets that a lot of people have sexual fetishes , and that putting on a pair of handcuffs does not make a person insane .  perhaps the only positive elements in the general's daughter are a couple of the performances .  james woods has a few terrific scenes , and plays his role with sharp , witty subtlety .  i also liked james cromwell , mostly because he comes across as slightly sympathetic despite the obvious intent of west to make him villainous .  nonetheless , these performances are undermined entirely by the dreary , obligatory atmosphere and the senseless neglect of characterization .  the general's daughter is the worst kind of hollywood film -- it pretends to have a soul , to be of strict moral code , when in fact it has nothing more than a group of cardboard cut-outs force-feeding the audience a toxic landfill of plot contrivances and one-sided moral judgments . 
pos@ anna and the king strides onto the screen in full regalia , wearing a brilliant suit of sumptuous landscapes , deep , vibrant colors and an epic storyline .  it's true beauty comes from it's subtle ruminations on the politics of power , whether it's between governments , or the interplay between a man and a woman .  anna ( jodie foster ) is a widowed british schoolteacher with a touch of wanderlust trying to grasp her quicksilver feelings concerning the recent death of her husband .  with son in tow , she takes the employ of king mongkut ( chow yun-fat ) to tutor his son in the english language .  mongkut sees the strength of the british and correctly surmises that his country's future lies in opening itself up to the ways of the western world .  anna function is to help provide that link .  the core of the film , of course , deals with the blossoming love between anna and mongkut as it attempts to germinate in the unfriendly soil of a shifting political climate .  foster plays anna with equal parts clenched jaw and wide-eyed wonder .  she is assertive , yet , respectful of the king as she initially tries to impose her western sensibilities upon him .  it is one of foster's strongest performances since silence of the lambs in a role she could not have played earlier in her career .  she brings a mature self- awareness and determination that might not have come across from a younger foster .  it's a joy to watch her cagily bargain for her own measure of influence within the realm of mongkut's monarchy .  when she makes her entrance into a politically charged banquet mid-film , she exudes a hypnotic beauty that is deepened by her textured performance .  chow-yun fat's king mongkut is every measure of foster's anna , perhaps even more so .  this is the chow yun-fat that hong kong cinema has been in love with for nearly twenty years .  he is imposing , yet vulnerable , playful , but stern .  it is an impressively assured and nuanced performance .  precious time is stolen from the movie's 155 minutes running time by an unengaging subplot involving one the king's concubines ( bai ling ) and her love of a commoner .  it strikes with the subtlety of siam's fabled white elephant as it stomps through the leisurely paced story .  some may be put off by the action filled climax of the movie .  although a bit inconsistent in tone from the rest of the film , it fits within the established subplot of a perceived siege by neighboring burma , a country backed by the british .  anna and the king transcends being a predictable , traditional love story by avoiding mawkishness .  it shows a seduction of intelligence .  ever mindful of each other's positions , anna and king mongkut negotiate a maze of social customs , conflicting world views and lost loved ones to connect on a level that ultimately proves deeply satisfying , if not achingly bittersweet . 
neg@ the happy bastard's quick movie review  wild wild west  a better name for this movie might've been " wild wild waste " .  warner bros . , in an attempt to get their own men in black style of movie , had managed to lasso in some big names ( actor will smith and director barry sonnenfeld , the duo behind mib's success ) in order to get their own fourth of july blockbuster , a contemporary big-screen update to the classic western/sci-fi series the wild wild west starring robert conrad .  but somehow , they ran into a problem along the way .  they were so busy trying to fill specific roles that they forgot one in general that would've made all the difference- a story writer .  wild wild west's story and script was compiled by six different people , rather than just the one who put the brilliant touches on men in black , ed solomon .  if warner bros . had gotten him , the movie would've possibly been five times better than what it is .  heck , ten times .  as is , however , the story and screenplay is a mess , filled with dead laughs , enough racist and sex jokes to make even will cringe as he's performing them , and a complete lack of chemistry that made the tv show work so well .  here's the story : us army member james west ( will smith ) teams up with creative genius artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) to take on a ruthless villain by the name of arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh ) , whose lower half was blown off during the civil war , leaving him to roll around in a steam-controlled wheelchair .  they catch onto a plot of his involving a superweapon that can basically be considered an 80-foot tarantula ( although it looks bigger than that ) , hellbent on destroying anything in its path .  as i said , the way the script unfolds is a complete mess .  but the acting doesn't help either .  kevin kline is miserable as gordon , failing to display even a smidgeon of care as he did in the 1985 western silverado .  smith seems to be having a better time as west , although he's not nearly as charming as he was in mib .  branagh goes excessively over the top as the villain , perhaps to the point where we can't even stand to look at him or his strange beard .  and salma hayek is along for the ride to search for her missing father , but mostly she exists just for sexual attention .  her acting is barely passable , but what a " breath of fresh ass " .  director barry sonnenfeld isn't of great help either .  even though he shows some good creativity at some points , his overall urgency for directing is lost .  it's as if he feels he's directing a tv movie , a big no-no when you're helming what's supposed to be a big-screen hit .  last but not least , there are huge gaps of logic that are just plain unacceptable .  at one point , smith defies gravity when first boarding kline's train .  he jumps on the back , gets launched straight up in the air , and somehow manages to land three cars ahead on the train- while it's still in motion !  also , he seems to be strangely comfortable talking about racism in front of a lynch mob , particularly considering the fact that his family was killed by the likes of such folks .  last but not least , why is he still making kissing faces when he knows he's not kissing a woman as he's looking through a peephole at the enemy ? !  the only saving grace for wild wild west come mostly in the form of special effects .  the huge mechanical spider is a technical marvel , very authentic looking and considerable to the creativity of the show .  there's also a good sequence involving metal magnet neckbraces and spinning saw blades , but , again , a logic question comes into play regarding their polarity .  i would say sit back and have a good time with wild wild west , but it really isn't possible .  if the racist and sex jokes don't bother you , the performances will .  if the performances don't bother you , the story will .  if the story doesn't bother you , the racist and sex jokes will .  there's no end to the vicious circle .  go rent men in black instead and pretend smith and tommy lee jones are wearing cowboy hats .  you'll have a better time .  if you do go , keep an eye out for robert conrad in a role as president grant .  i bet he wishes he were somewhere else . . . 
pos@ one of kyle mclachlan's earlier cinematic features , this movie has had an obvious influence on such films as the terminator ( 8/10 ) , species ( 7/10 ) and the more recent , fallen with denzel washington .  plot : a science-fiction picture set in modern times , this thriller follows the exploits of an " entity " from outer space , who likes to inhabit human bodies , use them up until they are completely worn out , and then switch over to the next available receptacle .  fbi agent ( mclachlan ) and local top cop ( nouri ) are charged with the capture of this " thing " before it's too late .  critique : this fast-paced , urban equivalent of the thing ( 8/10 ) , checks in on all cylinders for ultra-violence ( god knows how many people died in this movie ) , action and an overall rock 'n roll attitude .  then again , how can you go wrong with an " alien " that likes the ferraris , guns , heavy metal music and sexy girls ? !  granted , the plot isn't the most elaborate of tales ( alien bad , find alien , kill alien ) , but i can honestly say that i was never once bored during the viewing of this entire picture .  i wouldn't recommend it to those who don't like car chases , murders , and bland acting , but for all the rest of you out there , those who enjoy putting away their brains every now and again , sitting back , slamming back some salsa'd nachos , and relishing in the cheeze some call film . . .  have a blast ! !  two scenes to watch for are both within the first ten minutes of this gore-fest .  the opening sequence is one of the most rockin' scenes to open any action movie , and the subsequent extra-terrestrial " transformation " is another eye-catcher .  even the late 80's special effects were okay .  followed by the hidden ii in 1994 .  little known facts : this film was kyle maclachlan's first non-david lynch foray into the world of feature films .  his first two movie appearances were in lynch's wretched dune ( 4/10 ) and the sensational blue velvet ( 8 . 5/10 ) 
neg@ bob the happy bastard's quickie review :  the odd couple ii  grumpy old men , it ain't .  hell , my fellow americans , it ain't .  walter matthau and jack lemmon team up again for an even more worn out vehicle than any of their films over the past few years .  odd couple ii feels terribly generic , where in the first movie , made thirty one years ago , feels like a wonderful tale .  that's like repackaging campbell's soup in a generic food can , really .  how writer neil simon could've made such a horrible mistake in screen writing is beyond me .  throughout the movie , i really didn't laugh once .  honestly .  i mean , there were dumb situations , yeah , like the cropduster who let these old geezers have it without any notice , but they just really didn't seem funny to me .  and that car rolling off the cliff ?  the only way i would've seen humor in that is if they were still in it .  and the ending gets all super-mushy , too .  in the final twenty minutes or so , lemmon meets a girl he thinks is the one , then loses her ; matthau talks to his son ( a wasted jonathan silverman ) about his amrriage to lemmon's daughter ; and , of course , lemmon and matthau have another roomie situation on their hands .  ooh , i really gave a lot away there , i'm sure .  consider it a hospitable gester , you won't waste your time renting this muck . 
pos@ director : penelope spheeris ( decline of western civilization ii - the : metal years , dudes , & suburbia )  cast : mike myers ( wayne campbell ) , dana carvey ( garth algar ) , : rob lowe ( benjamin oliver ) , tia carrere ( cassandra )  summary : wayne and garth have a public access show called " wayne's : world . "  the show is a underground hit , until benjamin : oliver comes onto the scene .  benjamin wants to turn the : show into a big hit nationwide , possibly destroying the : essence of " wayne's world " in the process .  [expectations - medium]  long review ===========  i must admit being a bit reluctant going into this film .  i didn't believe that they ( mike myers and dana carvey ) could hold it up for an hour and a half , i figured that perhaps the first half-hour would be great , and the rest would be " fluff . "  however , i was really surprised about how well they were able to keep the laughs going for the virtually the whole film , with the exception of the ending .   ( which i won't discuss for obvious reasons , but it's not * that * bad . )  story : the plot was quite thin , but it really wasn't that noticeable , because of the rapid-fire jokes that myers wrote in .  alot of the jokes are very similar to hot shots ! , in being very " parodyish . "   ( okay , bad term . )  extremely witty throughout , although ( as in hot shots ) it got a bit repetitive in the middle .  acting : as in many comedies , the acting isn't really * that * important .  however , myers turns in a good performance as wayne , playing the character perfectly , ( although i still liked him better back on much music , in a more " canadian " type of mode . )  carvey is okay as garth , but he lacks the spark myers puts into wayne .  tia carrere is mediocre as cassandra , playing it very stilted .  lowe is fine as ben oliver , but is nothing to write home about .  without a doubt , this movie is mike myers all the way .  direction : spheeris is a classic " music " movie director , making dudes , and decline of western civilization ii -- the metal years .   ( she also directed the boys next door , which is different , to say the least . )  she is very capable , knows how direct a comedy , the correct camera movements it instill laughs , etc . one of the better jobs i can remember for a comedy .  overall : i would suggest to anyone that likes snl's skits to go see this film in the theatres .  however , my personal opinion , as in most comedies , is that they work just as well on video .  you definately have to be fan of music , and all forms of media in general to enjoy this film .  without a doubt , this is the best comedy so far this year .  it'll make tons 'o' dough for everyone involved .  let's just hope they make a thousand sequels .  [sorry , i had to get the lame joke in . . .  forgive me . ] 
neg@ a disappointing biography about the homosexual relationship of two famous 19th century french poets .  the film managed to remove all the poetry from the poets and instead concentrated on their abrasive personalities .  the result is merely an academic exercise , leaving an emotional vacuum that it couldn't build on to show them as the poets they were .  on paper , this shouldn't have been so terrible -- it had a talented director in agnieszka holland ( " the secret garden " ) , a proven screenwriter in christopher hampton ( dangerous liaisons ) , and a capable cast .  but the film was done in by its inept script , the unappealing way the film was directed , and the miscasting of leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud .  i found his performance to be the most risible one in the film , with him acting more like a teenage brat than a young genius , spouting obsenities without giving a hint that a true poet lies behind that facade .  he , especially , looked bad because david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so good despite the turgid dialogue that was thrust upon him and how thin a character he was forced to be .  but when the two of them were together , it looked like a mismatch .  leonardo's rimbaud only made the young poet look petulant and crude , yet we know from rimbaud's poetry , that he must have had something going for him because his poetry was awe inspiring .  the film opens in post-revolutionary france in 1871 , the 16-year-old rimbaud has sent the established symbolist poet verlaine a letter with his poems .  he accepts verlaine's praises and invitation to be a house guest in his splendid paris home , and rimbaud leaves his sullen farm in rural charleville .  once there , rimbaud is disappointed in the bourgeoisie household , has an immediate conflict with verlaine's busty 18-year-old wife mathilde ( romane ) , and finds to his regret that the drunken verlaine loves his rich wife for her body and that he lives off her family's money , even though he has nothing else in common with her .  when verlaine states , " poets can learn from one another , " rimbaud replies in a haughty tone , " only if they're bad poets . "  he will continue to treat the older poet like dirt for the rest of their relationship .  verlaine proves to be weak-willed , beating his wife regularly , and plays just as despicable a character as rimbaud .  when mathilde's father kicks rimbaud out of the house , verlaine finds him in a rooming house and the two become lovers .  it's a real downer to watch this story unfold into a series of obnoxious behavior patterns on the part of the two poets , which leads them to traveling together and mathilde asking for a divorce .  in brussels , verlaine gets arrested for sodomy and spends two years in jail .  while rimbaud becomes angered at the literary world and never writes another poem after he becomes 19 .  he instead goes to north africa and becomes an adventurer and a gun-runner , and after ten years there , comes home with a tumor on his knee and dies a changed man at the age of 37 .  the hopeless relationship between the two is what the picture covers in detail and that was not very satisfying .  the film ends on a whimper . . . with  verlaine talking with rimbaud's sister about her brother and the poems of his he still possesses , which the sister wants destroyed so as not to embarrass the family or ruin the name of her deceased brother if published .  this film was especially annoying because rimbaud's poems are filled with a visionary tenseness that are not even approached in this film , as the film only manages to skim the surface of the lives of these poets and completely ignores the value of their poetry .  i have no idea what the filmmaker was trying to say in this film , but whatever it was , it just didn't work .  it certainly didn't bring any light into understanding what rimbaud meant to modern poetry and why he earned the reputation as the so-called father of modern poetry . 
pos@ carolco pictures and dutch director paul verhoeven ( robocop ) came together to create the 1990 mega hit that is total recall .  the film is a masterpiece of sets , action , and special effects .  action and science fiction just don't get any better than this !  the story involves a construction worker named douglas quaid ( arnold schwarzenegger ) who lives on earth with his beautiful wife lori ( sharon stone ) .  quaid is obsessed with mars and decides to go with the second best choice ; a brain implant ( fake memory ) of a two week vacation on mars .  while being implanted a memory cap is triggered and the doctors realize that quaid's memory has previously been erased .  now the people who did it are after him .  quaid must find out who he really is and why these people want him dead .  the plot unfolds at a rapid pace explaining itself through great action , special effects , and twist after mind-boggling twist .  it grabs you and never lets go !  this film is a winner from beginning to end .  the plot is superb ; combining the best elements of science fiction and psychological mystery to create a rip-roaring saga .  schwarzenegger gives his best performance ever , and the supporting cast is good too .  the action and stunts are terrific .  the sets are huge and elaborate with a lot of attention payed to detail .  the music and sound effects are perfect for the film and really add a certain level of impact to the action .  the make-up effects by rob bottin ( the howling , the thing , and robocop ) are top notch , not to mention extremely outlandish .  the visual effects by dream quest ( the abyss ) and industrial light and magic ( star wars trilogy , jurassic park , and terminator 2 ) are phenomenal !  the visuals had such a state of the art " slickness " that they won an oscar .  of course the film isn't always realistic ; it's more fiction than science .  for example , it is true that a body won't explode in the vacuum of space but in total recall they do .  who cares ?  it's a movie .  movies are supposed to entertain .  and in my opinion this film achieves an entertainment level in film that is so terrific , it may be impossible to beat . 
neg@ saw an advanced screening of the movie sniper last night , and i have to say i wasn't too impressed .  this film is about an expert marine sniper , played by tom berenger , who is teamed with a hot-shot-young-no-experience-never-killed-a-man new partner to take out some drug-kingpins and military strong men in panama .  sound cliche ?  that's only the beginning .  billy zane ( memphis belle ) played the rookie , and never seemed to get a handle on his character .  he was so contrary and pig-headed in the beginning , you just wanted to smack him .  then he goes " crazy " from the pressure , but seems to immediately snap out of it .  i'm not sure if the blame should lie with the directing , editing , scriptwriting , or acting . . .  but it didn't all come together .  i think berenger is a pretty good actor , and he looked great in the part , covered in camo , face painted , stalking through the jungle with his high-power rifle . . .  but once again , his character was given some pretty bad dialogue , and didn't react too logically to many of the situations .  there was very little logical development in these characters .  my biggest problem with this film was it's tendency to put these two snipers in as * many * inches-from-death situations as possible .  they began to resemble g . i . joes , the greatest american hero .  and of course their almost supernatural accuracy with their guns was called upon to get them out of far too many close calls .  now a lot of movies are stamped out of this mold , in fact that's what made die hard so much fun : the super-hero avenger type .  so some will enjoy the action hero heroics , but i didn't think it fit with the nice tension that was built up in the earlier scenes , and the " real life " feel of covert operations in panama .  a word must be said on the camera work , much of it was very nice .  the jungles of panama ( or their stand-ins in this case ) formed a very picturesque background . . .  and the drama of speeding bullets was captured using some nice trick photography .  many have seen the slowed down " bullet-cam " following the projectile to its target .  this was used well in the beginning to show the feverish nightmares berenger gets when remembering the moment of the kill .  it was dramatic when used in flashback . . . but  it seems the director liked the technique so much he started inserting these shots ( pardon the pun ) into the real time action . . . then  it just seemed silly .  all in all , not a real dog : there is some nice action , good atmosphere , and pretty photography .  but the plot is pretty lame , the acting didn't form a cohesive whole , and far too much thisclosefromdeath heroics . 
pos@ vannesa kensington : `austin , do you smoke after sex ? ' austin powers : `i don't know baby , i've never looked ! '  and so begins our journey into the most anticipated sequel of the summer season .  austin powers 2 , the sequel to the sleeper hit of 1997 , is filled to the brim with uproarious sight gags and lurid toilet jokes that will make you keel over with hilarity .  the mind of mike myers is obviously a very bizarre place .  myers returns as the swinging 60's spy and his arch-nemesis , the bald headed dr . evil , who is given much of the spotlight here .  there's an early scene in which dr . evil and his son scott ( seth green ) appear on a jerry springer segment entitled `my dad is evil and wants to take over the world' , hosted by springer himself .  most of these talk-show gags , spoofing everything from oprah to regis and kathie lee , are no longer as funny as they once were .  happily , this is an exception , especially when a fight breaks out between dr . evil and the other guests .   ( sample dialogue- `come back here you mother #!%$^ ! !  you want a piece of me ? ' )  the audience was in stitches .  there are many good things about this sequel .  dr . evil is now assisted by mini-me ( verne troyer ) , a pint-sized clone who is the result of an experiment gone awry .  mini-me is the most perfect new character that any fan could ask for , and troyer does a terrific job of mimicking everything that his big brother does , pinkie and all .  mindy sterling returns as frau farbissina , evil's loud-mouth assassin sidekick , and here we are treated to a brief romantic liaison between the two in an underground bedroom chamber .  this works surprisingly well .  afterward , there's even a meeting at the coffee machine , where their awkwardness is expressed in a scene you would expect in any normal office environment .  oh , yes . . .  the plot .  after a short honeymoon with vanessa kensington ( elizabeth hurley ) that goes disastrously wrong , powers is back on the case to thwart the diabolical plans of dr . evil .  in the original , the subject of the day was cryogenic freezing that enabled the characters to hop between two time periods .  here , it's time travel .  dr . evil has this crazy plan to steal austin's mojo ( the source of his sexual powers ) , so he jumps through a time portal back into 1969 when powers is still is his freezing chamber .  there , he employs a grotesque 600-pound scottish assassin named fat bastard ( also myers ) to commandeer the mojo , so that our future hero is left completely shagless .  meanwhile , austin is informed of evil's wrong-doing by basil exposition ( michael york ) , and is supplied with his very own time-traveling device in the form of a volkswagen beetle .  once back in 1969 , powers meets a foxy cia operative named felicity shagwell ( heather graham ) , and learns of dr . evil's plans to destroy washington dc with a lazer on the moon .  in one of the many uproarious jabs at star wars , evil calls the moon base a `death star' .  if there ever was a movie that knew from the start it was a complete joke , it's austin powers : the spy who shagged me .  ap2 has many hilarious moments , much more so , than the original austin powers .  but what it doesn't have is the confident support system that the first boasted , and the jokes are now more scattershot and hit-and-miss .  while myers has a knack for delivering clever , inspired gags , he sometimes doesn't know when to call it quits .  the hilarious scene in the original involving mustafa ( will ferrell ) and his refusal to die is played out here in a disappointing and tired manner .  robert wagner , as dr . evil's #2 man , has only one scene early on in the film , where he lacks all the focus of the character .  one nice surprise is rob lowe , as the young #2 , who patterns wagner's voice and movements right down to a tee .  there are more recycled jokes from the predecessor , including kristen johnston as ivana humpalot ( an unfunny rendition of alotta fagina ) .  but myers has clearly put so much dedication into this project , and many bits are side-splittingly funny .  don't miss an extended visual gag in a tent , where the shadows leave much to the imagination . . . .  of the new characters , graham doesn't leave much of an impression .  her performance is merely okay , and she lacks the gung-ho enthusiasm that made elizabeth hurley so enjoyable before her .  and as for fat bastard . . .  well , he provides one or two hilarious moments , but all of the obesity jokes and bathroom talk go too far .  but my most severe complaint : mr . bigglesworth was only in one scene ! !  but , with gritted teeth , i managed to get over that .  this sequel will not leave fans disappointed ; it's more often than not a laugh riot .  and , i look optimistically to the future , where i foresee more installments to the austin powers collection .  if myers can up the quota of fresh ideas , we should be in store for much more .   ( c ) 1999 , jamey hughton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  jamey hughton ( 15 ) has written a weekly column in the starphoenix , saskatoon , sk since november , 1997 .  he was a 1999 writing finalist in the canadian ytv achievement awards . 
neg@ the 13th warrior reeks so badly of melodrama and poor acting that it carries a worst scent than a canine's least appetizing residue .  the best part of the film would be a close contest between the closing credits and a brief moment in the middle where the screen goes entirely white and you hope that the film has slipped and caught ablaze in the projector .  my vote goes for the ending credits , where you can start trying to put the awful experience behind you .  ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) is an important official who is banished from his home for sleeping with another man's wife .  he encounters a group of norse warriors who convince him to join them on a mysterious journey to be taken by 13 men .  fahdlan is chosen as the 13th and last warrior in a moment that is so desperately overacted and overdone that numerous persons at the screening i attended broke out into laughter .  the movie proves to be a new low point for banderas , who's acting seems closer to that of his role as the lover and caretaker for a dying gay man in 1993's philadelphia , than that of a warrior .  in the film's supposed pay off scene , he exclaims " i was wrong , these are not men ! " ,  a line intended to be the most memorable quote of the production .  unfortunately , banderas delivers it in a fashion that makes chevy chase's career look like oscar material .  the film , based on michael crichton's best selling novel , eaters of the dead was shot under that name some three years ago , and after numerous rewrites not only does the dialogue seem completely phony , but the plot is incredibly difficult to follow .  at the same time , the 13th warrior makes you think about numerous questions .  questions like " why do the characters always have perfect lighting on them even when it is pitch dark ? " ,   " why does no one ever have blood cover both sides of their face , but rather just one side ? "  and finally , " will the manager give me a refund ? "  90 minutes into the 103 minute film , a man invites of the warriors " come with me , there is a woman who can help . "  unfortunately , there is nothing that could help this film .  the most appropriate ending would have been for the 13 men to join hands , form a chorus line , and break into a rendition of " springtime for hitler . " 
pos@ i remember making a pact , right after `patch adams' , to not be easily be suckered by movies dripping with sentimentality .  but darn it , `music of the heart' is just layered with feel-good material and bright characterizations .  it's hard to dislike a movie that uses such skill with it's manipulation .  in addition , it's also a terrific family film .  this is the true story of violin teacher roberta guaspari , who fought the school board to keep the musical program active in a handful of inner city harlem schools .  it could also be described as `mrs .  streep's opus' .  yes , meryl streep brings her dramatic clout to the demanding role of guaspari , and that brings both good news and bad .  out of the gate , possibly because of her distracting star power and the rushed writing , it is relatively difficult to identify with roberta's character and grasp her academic point-of-view .  she is very strict with her students , but what insight does that create into the story ?  slowly but surely , we begin to recognize the intentions of the character , and show admiration for the thoughtfulness and human feeling that streep has once again applied .  one thoroughly interesting fact about `music of the heart' lies with the unlikely presence in the director's chair : horror veteran wes craven .  after leaving an impression with the `scream' films and the original `nightmare on elm street' , craven has attempted a precarious cross-over to drama .  at first , his inexperience with the genre is fairly obvious , but as the film progresses craven finds a surprisingly comfortable niche with directing this material .  it doesn't carry the heart-warming courage of `mr .  holland's opus' , but `music of the heart' is casually assured and filled with little morsels of dramatic truth .  the tag team of streep and craven works better than you would anticipate .  yes , oscar could come calling once again for meryl streep , but it's the solid ensemble cast that makes `music of the heart' work .  angela bassett displays her usual forceful stamina as janet williams , the principal at an inner city school who initially doesn't hire roberta because of her lack of experience .  blue-eyed adian quinn is endearing , as always , playing a new love interest .  gloria estefan also delivers in the tiny role of a supportive second-grade teacher , and the three lead actresses together produce a flaming fireball of estrogenic force .  it's like a schoolteacher's version of `thelma and louise' , in a restrained but effective manner .  the movie tackles more issues than just guaspari's teaching of violin .  there's some powerful moments between roberta and her two sons , who must cope when their father leaves them for another woman .  in it's dramatic build-up , the movie manages to produce some authentic moments of feeling and warmth .  it's a good movie for anyone to see , although missing out on the experience would not be a life-altering decision .  it's commendable of wes craven to be attempting such a difficult cross-over , and also for achieving his intricate goal .  watching this heartfelt chick flick about morals and musical instruments , who may ask yourself : this is the guy who directed `scream' ?  of course , when the third installment of that series comes around in february 2000 ( with craven directing ) , you may find yourself wondering : this is the guy who directed `music of the heart' ?  mission accomplished , wes .  thankfully , there is no layer of artificial sentiment covering the film .  in it's entirety , it's a wholesome and agreeable movie for the whole family , despite the periodic flaws that surface every once in awhile .  the child actors are cute and perform up to par , even if some of their problems are clich ? d and predictable in the extreme .  the mother who doesn't want her son to be learning `white man's music' , the unexpected casuality . . .  basically everything is there .  it doesn't strike the perfect chord , but `music of the heart' is highly convincing .  the uplifting true story of roberta guaspari could have been told better , but `music of the heart' is still edifying enough to properly divulge her morals . 
neg@ godzilla is the ultimate culmination of the " who cares about plot " summer movie .  a loose remake of the 1954 " classic " japanese monster movie , godzilla , king of the monsters ( which is itself pretty thin in the story department ) , roland emmerich and dean devlin's big-budget lizard-stomps-manhattan disaster flick has been written with the brain dead in mind .  the script isn't just " dumbed down , " it's lobotomized .  godzilla lives and dies on special effects alone .  presumably , the primary target group for this film is teenage boys , the demographic most likely to shell out $7 repeatedly to see the same images of monster-instigated carnage .  that's not to say that females and other age groups are immune to the special effects seduction ; they're just not as readily susceptible .  this is the third straight movie in a row where emmerich and devlin have demonstrated that a mastery of computer-generated visuals is far more important for making money than the ability to write and direct for actors .  stargate was a financial success .  independence day was a runaway hit .  and , with godzilla already drowning in hype and merchandising tie-ins before it even opens , it's virtually guaranteed at least $100 million .  nice numbers for a film that could have been penned by a not-too-precocious grade school kid .  godzilla isn't completely without merit , although it is close .  there's a certain visceral thrill inherent in watching the giant lizard rip his way through manhattan , but it wears off quickly .  frankly , while the special effects are competent , they're not all that stunning .  there's nothing new here ; it's jurassic park meets aliens , with a little independence day thrown in for bad measure .  maybe it will require george lucas and his new star wars movie to take computer-generated visuals to the next level .  godzilla never really pushes the envelope , preferring to remain within a comfort zone .  the imagination of monster movies like king kong has been replaced by a crass , formulaic approach which disallows creativity .   ( how disturbing is it to know that godzilla has been chosen to close the 51st cannes film festival ? )  worst of all , godzilla isn't even exciting .  with the possible exception of a mildly enjoyable car chase near the end , there isn't a sequence in this film that raises the pulse .  even the scenes with dozens of aircraft attacking the monster are so devoid of tension and suspense that they are yawn-provoking .  independence day may have been dumb , but it was full of " adrenaline moments " capable of getting the audience involved in the action .  in this aspect of its production , as in so many others , godzilla is lacking .  actually , part of the problem is that we're never sure who we're supposed to be rooting for : the green monster with an attitude or the paper-thin humans trying to stop him .  the plot , such as it is , can be summed up rather simply .  after sinking a few ships and leaving some footprints on tropical islands , godzilla shows up in the big apple .  he does some of the usual tourist things : stops by madison square garden , visits the chrysler building , goes on a walk through central park , and takes the subway .  in the process , he knocks over a few buildings and steps on countless cabs , but he never has trouble with traffic jams .  on hand to stop him is an elite u . s . army unit , led by a slightly less-arrogant-than-usual military man ( kevin dunn ) and a biologist named nick tatopoulos , who has a theory about godzilla .  in his opinion , the big guy is actually a lizard grown to enormous proportions as a result of the radiation given off by french atomic bomb tests in the south pacific .  in nick's words , godzilla is " a mutated aberration ? an incipient creature ? the first of its kind . "  as luck would have it , nick's old girlfriend , audrey ( maria pitillo ) , is a reporter based at a new york tv station .  along with her cameraman friend , animal ( hank azaria ) , she decides to follow nick around as he trails godzilla .  then , just when the military has rejected nick's theory about why godzilla is in new york , a member of the french secret service ( jean reno ) recruits him for a special assignment .  instead of stomping around tokyo this time , godzilla has chosen new york city .  unfortunately , manhattan has been destroyed so many times in recent disaster movies ( independence day , deep impact , armageddon ) that it's becoming boring .  the whole tradition of monsters roaming around the city started with king kong , but the big ape was only about 30 feet tall .  he could climb the empire state building .  at ten times that height , godzilla would be more likely to knock it over .  godzilla contains a few lame attempts at humor .  there's an ongoing feud between animal and his wife that plays like sit-com material , an unfunny and repetitive gag about how no one can pronounce nick's last name properly , and a rather tame attack on film critics roger ebert and gene siskel .  both of the popular personalities have alter egos in the film : " ebert , " the mayor of new york , is played by michael lerner , and " gene " ( lorry goldman ) is his campaign manager .  ebert's re-election slogan is , not surprisingly , " thumbs up for new york . "  the siskel/ebert stuff is amusing the first time it's used , but , after a while , it grows tiresome .  and , although the " characters " don't serve any real purpose , they keep popping up .  godzilla is saddled with an unimpressive cast .  this is largely because emmerich doesn't want to risk a human performance upstaging his lizard .  that's not to say that matthew broderick and jean reno aren't capable of good performances ( both have done their share of solid acting in the past ) , but they aren't a-list names .  then again , considering the quality of the writing , even pacino and deniro would have been hard- pressed to shine .  maria pitillo ( dear god ) plays the love interest and hank azaria ( great expectations ) is on hand to present what is supposed to be comic relief .  ultimately , it doesn't really matter what i ( or any other critic , for that matter ) have to say about the movie .  tristar has assumed that godzilla , like all self-proclaimed summer event motion pictures , is pretty much critic-proof .  it may also be word-of-mouth-proof .  those who want to see the movie will see it no matter what i write or their friends say .  so , when i go on record to assert that godzilla is one of the most idiotic blockbuster movies of all time , it's like spitting into the wind .  emmerich and devlin are master illusionists , waving their wands and mesmerizing audiences with their smoke and mirrors .  it's probably too much to hope that some day , movie-goers will wake up and realize that they've been had . 
pos@ pulp fiction , quentin tarantino's anxiously awaited and superb follow-up to reservoir dogs , is absolutely and without a doubt progressing as one of the most talked about , loved , and hated films of all-time .  in all fairness , it should be noted that those who love this film greatly outnumber those who hate it .  as if reservoir dogs wasn't perfect , tarantino went ahead and improved on perfection by creating pulp fiction , a fast-paced , hard talking , roller coaster ride of a movie that combines violence and extraordinary dialogue in a seemingly perfect way .  every major character in this film is represented by a terrific acting performance by the actor .  to begin with , the two hit men : vincent vega ( john travolta ) and jules winnfield ( samuel l . jackson ) .  these two characters work together perfectly , and the performances by each actor are nearly perfect .  travolta , in fact , is still trying to get out of the vincent vega role .  if these two characters were not enough , there's the struggling boxer butch coolidge ( bruce willis ) , the two small-time criminals pumpkin ( tim roth ) and honey bunny ( amanda plummer ) , the big man in charge marsellus wallace ( ving rhames ) and his attractive young wife mia ( uma thurman ) , and the " problem solver " himself , the wolf ( harvey keitel ) .  these are just the major characters .  smaller roles , but equally terrific , are handed to jimmie ( quentin tarantino ) , a young married man who gets caught up in some serious gangster business , lance ( eric stoltz ) , the far-out drug dealer , as well as maynard ( duane whitaker ) and zed ( peter greene ) , two hillbillies who are the men " behind " ( no pun intended for those of you who have seen this ) a very disturbing scene towards the end of the film .  the film interweaves three stories that , at first , seem to be nothing alike but later prove to be very critical to each other .  the film begins with pumpkin and honey bunny in a small coffee shop discussing their recent robberies and hold-ups .  the two quickly decide to hold up the coffee shop , unknowing of what lies ahead .  after this , the film focuses for some time on vincent and jules and their hit man lifestyle .  utilizing the films unforgettable dialogue , the two men discuss such things as hamburgers and foot massages before they bust into an apartment to terrorize the occupants .  the two men were sent to the apartment to recover a mysterious briefcase for their boss , marsellus wallace .  after basically toying with the men , especially the unfortunate brett ( frank whaley ) , vincent and jules complete their mission and recover the briefcase .  this is not before a man jumps out from a bathroom with a . 357   " hand cannon " , shooting at the two gangsters .  he somehow completely misses them , leading jules to cite divine intervention .  this is also the basis for more of the now-famous tarantino dialogue .  the film then shifts to focus on boxer butch coolidge and his boxing escapades .  butch was ordered to take a fall in his latest fight , but when he does not , marsellus vows to find him , wherever he is , and make sure that butch is not able to enjoy his new fortune .  vincent , meanwhile , has the honor of taking marsellus' wife , mia , out on a date while the big man is out of town .  vincent , obviously , is rather nervous about this , especially after hearing the tale about a man who was thrown out of a window for supposedly giving mia a foot massage .  after their date , which seems to rather smoothly , things take a turn for the worst at the hands of vincent's high-priced heroin , dubbed a " monster " by lance .  each story continually progresses , and new and amazing events occur .  eventually , the stories all meet each other in the end , with pumpkin and honey bunny holding up the restaurant , which happens to contain both vincent and jules .  pulp fiction is definitely one of the best films of the decade , and possibly of all-time .  along with its superb dialogue , action , writing , directing , and acting , this film will not only latch onto you , but it proves that it does not want to release you until it has sunk its claws completely into you .  and with most fans of this movie , this is proved to be a rather easy task , although at times the graphic images , violence , and language may seem a bit overpowering .  surely , quentin tarantino's fame was greatly escalated by this film , and he proves not to be one who will fade from existence very soon . 
neg@ from a major league baseball radio broadcast , featuring play-by- play man harry canary and color man whitey hashbrown , with special guest commentator james berardinelli .  hc : as we go to the top of the 8th , we're joined in the booth by film critic james berardinelli , who's here fresh from seeing the new baseball movie , major league : back to the minors , the third in the popular saga taking a lighter look at the majors .  nice to see you , jim .  as a big baseball fan and a movie reviewer , can you give us the scoop on the new flick ?  jb : my opinion : the producers should have stopped while they were ahead , and that was nine years ago .  one entry was definitely enough , and i'm surprised there was a third after the anemic showing and low quality of major league 2 . this latest installment has all the earmarks of something that should have been released direct-to-video .  it's worse than a mediocre made-for-tv feature .  i should also mention that this movie likely won't play all that well in cleveland .  now that the real indians are perennial contenders , they have been replaced by the minnesota twins as the cinematic sadsacks .  actually , most of the action involves the twins' aaa minor league club , the buzz , rather than the actual major league franchise .  hc : sorry to interrupt , jim , but we still have to do play-by-play for the game on the field .  leading off this inning is john warren .  he steps into the batter's box and takes kent's pitch low for ball one .  wh : so , the story's strictly minor league , right ?  what's it about ?  jb : scott bakula , the guy from quantum leap , plays career minor league pitcher gus cantrell .  when twins owner roger dorn , once again portrayed by corbin bernsen , needs a new manager for his aaa team , he offers the job to gus , who is now faced with two daunting tasks : turn the team around and groom hot prospect downtown anderson ( played by walt goggins ) for a promotion to " the show . "  with the help of former major leaguers pedro cerrano ( dennis haysbert ) , rube baker ( eric bruskotter ) , and isuro tanaka ( takaaki ishibashi ) , gus gets the buzz on the right track .  in fact , he is so successful that he earns the enmity of the jealous manager of the big-league club , leonard huff ( played with over-the-top relish by ted mcginley ) .  soon , dorn has arranged an exhibition game that pits gus' overachieving group against huff's overpaid , last-place bunch .  wh : can we guess who wins ?  jb : the results have all the suspense of watching the videotape of a game when you've already seen the box score .  on top of that , none of the mock-ups are presented with much flair .  they're not just boring ; they're lackluster .  but the major league movies have never been about drama or tension ; they've been about using baseball situations to generate laughs .  hc : warren fouls off a fastball .  1 and 1 .  wh : are there lots of yuks in this one ?  jb : not one , from start to finish .  i enjoyed the first major league because it was reasonably fresh and funny .  okay , a lot of the jokes were sophomoric , but they made me laugh .  the two sequels haven't just been stale , but their humor quotient has been abysmally low .  even bob uecker's once-sharp one-liners have turned lame , and they're the closest the film comes to being even vaguely amusing .  hc : here's the 1-1 pitch .  looooooong drive ? fair or foul ? foul ball !  the count goes to 1 and 2 .  wh : does the film at least get the baseball details correct ?  jb : yes .  there aren't any glaring errors like there were in one of the best-ever baseball movies , the natural .  but i'd gladly trade a technically accurate film for one with a good story , believable characters , or even a little genuine humor .  heck , the naked gun is a better baseball comedy than major league : back to the minors .  wh : it's nice to see old friends one more time , isn't it ?  like cerrano , tanaka , and dorn .  jb : depends on whether you really care that anyone is back .  there aren't any real characters here ? just an assortment of cliched oddballs .  yeah , the voodoo hitter , the catcher who can't throw back to the pitcher , the japanese player , and the conceited player-turned-owner have all returned , but who really cares ?  they have no depth .  notable absences include tom berenger's veteran and charlie sheen's " wild thing . "  we don't really miss them , though .  hc : breaking ball , low and outside .  2 and 2 .  wh : so you're saying that we should give this one a miss ?  jb : that's right .  to use baseball terminology , it's a three-pitch strikeout .  if you're looking for a good movie that involves baseball , try popping the natural , field of dreams , bull durham , or even the first major league into the vcr .  actually , this is an oddly-timed release , since baseball fans are likely to be spending more time in parks than in theaters .  even the minor league seasons are already underway .  don't bother with major league : back to the minors .  it's a wretched time- waster .  wh : thanks for the advice .  jb : you're welcome .  hc : and here's the 2-2 pitch .  fouled back , right into this booth .  hey , jim , heads up !  oops .  somebody better get him some ice for that .  he may be good at deflecting bad baseball movies , but he needs to learn not to duck into foul balls .  odd how warren seemed to aim that ball right at him , almost as if he has a grudge to settle .  anyway , back to the action on the field ? 
pos@ robert benton has assembled a stellar , mature cast for his latest feature , twilight , a film noir mystery set amid the fading stars of hollywood .  paul newman stars as retired detective harry ross .  harry has spent the last couple of years doing odd jobs for jack and catherine ames ( gene hackman and susan sarandon ) , a pair of married actors who have fallen from the limelight .  when jack sends him on a routine delivery job , however , the old instincts kick in .  soon , harry is wading through a mystery where friendships and lives are on the line , and he no longer knows who to trust .  there are plenty of familiar faces throughout twilight , in addition to newman , hackman and sarandon .  james garner plays raymond hope , a former cop and one of harry's best friends .  stockard channing plays verna , harry's former partner , and possibly a former love interest .  reese witherspoon is mel , the distrustful daughter of the ames' , and liev schrieber is her scuzzy boyfriend .  giancarlo esposito appears as harry's bumbling detective protigi , and john spencer is a suspicious police captain .  with a cast like that , it's almost worth watching twilight just to stargaze .  luckily , there's more to the film than some sort of actor's recognition ceremony .  twilight has a solid film noir-ish plot .  it may not have as many twists and turns as some of the classics , but it has much more than a lot of what passes for film these days .  the major cast members all deliver strong performances , as can be expected of their caliber .  however , none of them have that little extra oomph which would make them memorable .  the supporting cast is enjoyable , if a little underdrawn .  stockard channing's character , in particular , is a cipher .  there's more to her character than the film takes the time to describe .  it's a minor , but irritating , flaw .  with a solid cast , and a good plot , there's a lot to recommend about twilight .  it's biggest flaw is actually its short running time .  at a slim 94 minutes , there's a lot of stuff that's packed into an awfully small package .  still , the chance to see newman , sarandon and hackman working together is worth a cramp or two . 
neg@ one of the first films of 1999 is this mtv pictures release which marks the first leading feature role for james van der beek , the star of the wb's runaway hit dawson's creek .  following in the foot steps of mtv's two other live action films , joe's apartment ( 1996 ) and dead man on campus ( 1998 ) , varsity blues is a bad film and is unlikely to cause much of a sensation in the marketplace .  set in west cannan , texas , the film examines the small town obsession with high school football through the eyes of second string quarterback john " mox " moxon ( van der beek ) .  we know he's smart because he reads kurt vonnegut instead of the playbook .  coach bud kilmer ( jon voight ) has been around so long there is actually a bronze statue commemorating him .  the star quarterback , lance harbor ( paul walker ) , is a handsome , blonde , hero who has his own billboard in his front yard and dates the sexy head cheerleader , darcy ( ali larter ) .  also on the team are an enormous guy ( ron lester ) with some health problems and the token african-american team member ( eliel swinton ) whose only real dialogue scene deals directly with the color of his skin .  when lance is seriously injured , mox gets his chance to shine and he runs with it , undermining kilmer with his unusual playing strategies .  his relationship with his dutiful girlfriend , jules ( amy smart ) , is threatened and there's a big game at the end .  guess who wins ?  nothing about varsity blues is inspired and the whole film simply moves through the sort of conventional motions that coach kilmer would love .  there's a chance for some smart satire on small town obsessions but the humor here is decidedly lowbrow .  van der beek does a decent job of carrying his first film although a silly accent trips him up sometimes .  also , the role isn't very much of a stretch from his dawson leary character .  he's still a pseudo-intellectual , whiny , nice guy , except here he also happens to be a jock .  voight is a terror as he chews up every single piece of scenery and spits it out .  the other adults are all notably awful while the younger performers don't fare much better .  on the positive side , walker is a charismatic actor who is due for a breakout role following this and his supporting turn in pleasantville ( 1998 ) .  scott ( son of james ) caan has some lively moments as tweeder , the team's wild man .  larter , as a gorgeous seductress looking for a one way ticket out of texas , gets to show off the film's most interesting costumes , including a very eye-opening " whipped cream bikini . "  it's interesting to note that the film definitely earns its r-rating with a lot of harsh language , alcohol abuse and an unusually high amount of nudity ( including a gratuitous trip to a strip bar that reveals a not very surprising surprise ) .  all this is likely to come as a shock to the young female fan base of dawson's creek , presumably the target audience for the picture .  director brian robbins previously helmed the kids feature good burger ( from nickelodeon films , a sister company of mtv ) and changes directions here a bit but still fails to make much of an impression .  the look of the movie is as bland as the town and characters who populate it .  the football scenes are generally unexciting and the entire film looks a bit washed out .  there's an ok soundtrack featuring music from collective soul , foo fighters , green day and aaliyah but it's not as impressive as one would expect from a mtv film . 
pos@ with three pre- to mid-teen children and an aging father-in-law to care for--cooking and cleaning and laundry , drop-offs at little league practice and pick-ups from ballet practice--margaret hall's life is rife with complications .  and with her naval officer husband stationed somewhere in the north atlantic , virtually impossible to reach by telephone , margaret leads the crazed life of a single parent .  but margaret's hectic world is about to get a lot more complicated .  her teenage son beau , a talented trumpet player with strong prospects of being accepted into wesleyan university's music program , has fallen in with the wrong crowd .  his mother drives from their idyllic , lakeside community of tahoe city , california to the sprawling urban metropolis of reno , nevada , with its imposing concrete superstructures and seedy neon-lit nightclubs , to confront the 30-something man who has befriended beau .   " stay away from my son " margaret warns darby reese .  her words , however , appear to fall on deaf ears as reese turns up drunk at the family homestead later that evening , urging beau to join him in the boathouse .  there are words and advances and some pushing and shoving and beau runs back into the house , passed his startled mother , as the crack of a wooden railing giving way breaks the cold blue silence and an intoxicated reese tumbles out of sight .  the next day , on her morning walk , margaret discovers reese's lifeless body lying crumpled on the shoreline , a boat anchor impaled in his chest .  with her maternal instincts working overtime , margaret quickly ferries the body out into the lake , weighs it down , and dumps it overboard .  but margaret's life is about to get a lot more complicated .  soon after the body is discovered , snagged on a local fisherman's line , margaret is paid a visit by an attractive-seeming blackmailer in a red nova .  alek spera threatens to hand over compromising videotape of beau to the police unless margaret comes up with $50 , 000 by 4 o'clock the next day .  but margaret's life is about to get a lot more complicated , for alek turns out to be something she never expected .  based on elisabeth sanxay holding's novel " the blank wall , " " the deep end " is a well-crafted thriller written and directed by scott mcgehee and david siegel ( " suture " ) .  it makes the most of a talented but not particularly well-known cast--goran visnjic plays alek with a suave likeability , jonathan tucker shines as the conflicted beau , peter donat is amusing as grandfather hall , and josh lucas has an equally small but effective role as the hapless darby reese .  the film is also lovingly photographed by giles nuttgens and features an evocative score , courtesy peter nashel .  but it owes everything to british actress tilda swinton .  swinton , whose pale-faced ethereal beauty has graced many of derek jarman's films ( " caravaggio , " " edward ii , " " the last of england " ) , plays margaret hall in " the deep end " and , like charlotte rampling in this year's " under the sand , " turns in a commanding and accomplished performance .  margaret is a devoted mother who is willing to risk everything to protect the ones she loves , and swinton captures every frustration , every fear , every subtle examination and every fervent realization and every nervous oscillation of her being .  the role calls for an extremely wide range of emotions none the least of which is simply playing a mother beset with a multitude of domestic responsibilities .  many can relate to that , of course ; it's the murder cover-up and the blackmail and the fear of losing one's son that swinton so gracefully , so graciously , makes resonate with the truest of colors .  the end is deep all right , and there isn't a single shallow moment in tilda swinton's canon . 
neg@ all right , all right , we get the point : despite all similarities to the best-selling story , speechless is * not * based on the romance between 1992 presidential campaign rivals james carville and mary matalin .  in fact , the script was in development well before 1992 .  still , the comparisons are inevitable , until one realizes a critical difference .  no , it's not that the speechless twosome are speech writers , not campaign managers ; it's that carville and matalin's story is actually interesting .  speechless is a limp , poorly structured would-be romantic comedy .  speechless is set during a new mexico senatorial campaign , where kevin vallick ( michael keaton ) and julia mann ( geena davis ) meet and get romantic one night when neither one can sleep .  what neither one realizes is that they are on opposite sides of the campaign : kevin is a sit-com writer brought in to punch up the republican candidate's speeches , while julia is the chief speech writer for the democratic candidate .  at first each one believes that the other has an ulterior motive for the relationship , but eventually they let down their guard and become closer .  but there are plent of obstacles in the way , including julia's stud-reporter fiance ( christopher reeve ) and a series of stunts which continue to prove that all's fair in love and politics .  the standard formula for a movie like speechless would have the two principles starting out as antagonists and realizing only at the end that they're crazy about each other .  screenwriter robert king completely subverts expectations by throwing kevin and julia into each other's arms in the first fifteen minutes , then developing the antagonism .  it's a noble attempt to shake things up , but unfortunately it just doesn't work .  part of the fun of watching sparring in a romantic comedy comes from recognizing the chemistry even before the characters do , but in speechless they already know they're attracted to each other , and we're left with waiting for the campaign to end so they'll admit that they love each other already .  there is such a herky-jerky feel to the constant bickering and making up that even king's sharp dialogue can't prevent speechless from becoming repetitive after about half an hour .  inconsistency is also the defining characteristic of the performances of geena davis and michael keaton , and with those performances most of their scenes together .  the problems begin with their initial courtship , which does virtually nothing to establish julia's character and merely establishes that kevin is a wise-ass .  davis is radiantly beautiful , and keaton is generally entertaining , but these characters are so plastic that nothing that happens to them seems to matter one bit .  in a couple of scenes , like a quiet moment sitting at a fountain , they actually achieve some measure of connection .  for the most part , however , they're just actors spouting lines .  you keep waiting for a little spark , and it never happens .  perhaps most disappointing is that king and director ron underwood completely waste their premise by removing all the punch from speechless's politics .  the setting seems perfect for a high- energy battle of the sexes with partisanship thrown into the mix , but that's never the tone that underwood is going for .  he wants a warm , fuzzy romance compatible with marc shaiman's flute-and-wind musical score , and the campaign which should have defined the conflict between kevin and julia fades into the background .  it might as well have been a story about rival grocers , and every single character is about as uninspired as he or she could possibly be .  i was about the only reviewer in the civilized world who seemed to enjoy robert king's previous screenplay , the dana carvey flop clean slate , so i had some hopes for speechless .  but while there is wit in the words , this is a script which was probably much better on paper .  on screen , it's still paper thin . 
pos@ hedwig and the angry inch ( 2001 ) john cameron mitchell , miriam shor , stephen trask , michael pitt , theodore liscinski , michael aronov , andrea martin , maurice dean wint , ben mayer-goodman .  animation by emily hubley .  adapted from the stage play by john cameron mitchell and stephen trask .  music and lyrics by stephn trask .  written and directed by john cameron mitchell .  91 minutes .  rated r , stars )  had " hedwig and the angry inch " came out in the '70s , right after david bowie's " ziggy stardust , " it likely would now be regarded as one of the most popular rock musicals of all time .  released in the 500 channel , sensory overload world of 2001 , however , the big screen adaptation of the acclaimed off-broadway musical must do battle with countless other productions clamoring for attention .  i almost missed it .  every august , the major studios try to squeeze the last few dollars out of summer moviegoers by dumping all of their shakier offerings on the marketplace at once .  i was so busy trying to keep up with national releases like " summer catch " and " bubble boy " that i passed over any independent film that looked like it would only have a short local run .  but an e-mail from a reader asking why i hadn't reviewed the movie prompted me to make a late evening trip to the theater .  thank goodness for readers like him .   " hedwig and the angry inch " is a gender-bending glam-rock spectacular packed with great songs .  stylistically , the hook-laden tunes are reminiscent of bowie , " bat out of hell " era meatloaf and " the rocky horror show , " without ever seeming like imitations .  as with " tommy , " " hedwig " tells a story of isolation , pain and defiance , but without the bloated feel of that beloved , but overrated rock opera .  writer-director-star john cameron mitchell and composer-lyricist stephen trask have cooked up a real winner .  mitchell stars as hedwig , a singer from east berlin touring a chain of u . s . coffee shops with her pan-slavic band , the angry inch .  while the patrons of the run-down restaurants look on in shock , and sometimes horror , hedwig boldly tells the sad story of her life in song .  she was once a boy named hansel ( ben mayer-goodman ) , living with his mother ( alberta watson ) and listening to rock and roll on american armed forces radio .  life is an exercise in duality for hansel .  a wall splits his hometown into two parts .  mother describes love as the emotion that comes when you find your other half .  as hansel grows up , the duality becomes more pronounced .  after initially mistaking him for a girl , a gi from the states ( maurice dean wint ) falls in love with hansel and wants to marry him .  alas , hansel will never pass the mandatory physical .  mother helpfully suggests a sex change , but the operation goes bad , hence the references to " the angry inch " ( yes , i know this part is squirm-inducing , but stick with me - it's worth it ) .  several years later , mr . right is long gone and hansel becomes hedwig , decked out in a farrah fawcett-style wig and fronting a band made up of korean women .  hedwig finds a new love in tommy ( michael pitt ) , a beatific lad with a unique take on christianity .  but tommy does hedwig wrong , stealing her songs and becoming a superstar .  cut to the present .  tommy gnosis' stadium tour is thriving and hedwig is suing him .  despite warnings from her manager ( andrea martin ) that she could easily be labeled a stalker , hegwig and her new band , the angry inch , continue their coffee shop tour , shadowing the thief by playing whatever city he is in .  if this sounds like a bizarre premise for a rock musical , take a few seconds and consider the plotlines of " tommy " and " rocky horror . "  as hedwig , john cameron mitchell does a magnificent job taking a character that could have simply been a caricature or an icon and turning her into a compelling human being .  mitchell has world-class style and vocal chords to match .  even though the backstory is unusually strong , mitchell never forgets that the production is first and foremost a rock musical .  everything is propelled by one terrific song after another and , trust me , these are full-fledged rock songs , not the over-processed fluff that passes for rock in most musicals .  while mitchell remains in the center of the stage throughout the film , there is much of interest on the sidelines .  miriam shor does fine work as yitzhak , hedwig's lover and bandmate , conveying a great deal through expressions alone .  decked out in a bandanna and a surprisingly convincing beard , she makes a mighty attractive man .  as always , " sctv " veteran andrea martin is a welcome presence onscreen and michael pitt is beguiling as tommy , the angelic-appearing little rat .  artist emily hubley adds to the magic with a string of dandy animated sequences that charm the eye while underlining the central themes of the musical .   " hedwig and the angry inch " surrounds a weird , funny and touching story with a knockout series of songs performed by an exceptional cast .  true originals do not come along very often ? don't let this slip out of town without seeing it . 
neg@  " america's sweethearts " has an intriguing premise and a great cast , but it isn't nearly as edgy or funny as it should be .  almost all the problems with the project can be traced back to co-script writer billy crystal , who shows the same lack of discipline with the screenplay that he typically displays while co-hosting " comic relief " charity shows with robin williams and whoopi goldberg ( two other paragons of self-indulgence ) .  crystal ignores a simple , but crucial , rule : for a screwball comedy to work , the characters must be placed into a rigid social setting , because only in that context will their unorthodox antics be humorous .   " america's sweethearts " takes place at a press junket , where decorum must be maintained in front of the reporters .  it's a promising set-up , but the screenplay quickly blows off the rules , thus dissipating the tension of the situation .  by the end of the film , all the lead performers participate in a huge fight with a room full of journalists looking on , but their outbursts are only mildly amusing because the structure has been destroyed .  john cusack and catherine zeta-jones play eddie thomas and gwen harrison , a beloved acting duo whose marriage hit the skids when gwen began seeing hector ( hank azaria ) , a spanish actor with an ego almost as pronounced as his lisp .  of the last nine films eddie and gwen made together , six crossed the $100 million mark , but the prospects for their final effort , a space opus titled " time over time , " are far from rosy .  while eddie has spent many months in a new age rest clinic fretting over the breakup , gwen's solo films have tanked .  to make matter worse , the director of the movie ( christopher walken ) , a " visionary " who purchased the unabomber's cabin and had it moved to his backyard , is withholding the film from the studio , insisting that the first screening be held at the junket .  desperate to win over the press , the studio elects to hire lee ( billy crystal ) , a recently fired publicist , to salvage the situation .  lee hopes to turn lemons into lemonade by convincing eddie and gwen to pretend to be on the road to reconciliation .  he enlists the help of kiki ( julia roberts ) , gwen's sister , personal assistant and whipping girl .  what lee doesn't know is that kiki is in love with eddie , a fact that could temper her effectiveness .  press junkets are a haven for control freaks .  studios fly journalists in from around the world and put them up in a plush hotel , with food and drink always at hand .  generally , on the evening of their arrival , writers are bussed to see the featured film , then ferreted straight back to the hotel .  the next day , writers go to the studio suites and assemble in groups of five or six for roundtable interviews .  every 30 minutes or so , a producer , director , writer or actor is brought into the room for a few minutes of questions , with a publicist hovering in the corner to keep an eye on things .  the atmosphere is one of cordial oppression ? writers are free to ask what they want , but understand that if the studio dislikes a question , they may not be invited to future junkets .  representatives from tv stations face even more restrictions .  they get roughly five minutes to interview each member of the cast and crew , with the studio filming the exchanges .  the " reporters " are notorious for tossing softball questions as they suck up to the stars , but to play it safe , the studios stand ready to erase the tapes if anything unpleasant occurs .  placing two spoiled actors in a setting where image is everything is inspired , but the screenplay undermines the conceit .  the junket is moved from the handsome , but highly confining , four seasons hotel to a plush resort near las vegas .  for most of the film , the movie stars run around the sprawling grounds , completely safe from the eyes of the press .  when they do deal with journalists , the " it is imperative that you be on your best behavior in front of the reporters " premise is de-clawed .  gwen and eddie insult each other while the tv cameras roll , they scream at each other in a restaurant filled with the media and , at the screening of the movie , everyone connected with the film goes nuts , all without any repercussions .  lee certainly isn't bothered by any of the infantile outbursts ; in fact , he makes arrangements for footage of even more inappropriate behavior to be delivered to the tabloids .  is the studio angry about his handling of the combative actors ?  hell no ? they feel lee is a genius for garnering so much publicity for the movie .  all of which underscores how billy crystal and co-writer peter tolan screwed up their own premise : the comedy in " america's sweethearts " is based on barely-in-control people trying to contain themselves in the presence of reporters , except that it doesn't matter because any publicity is good publicity .  and thus the very set-up for the film implodes , leaving smoke and dust in place of laughter .  so what about the cast ?  julia roberts , at her best playing the underdog , is utterly charming here , although i could have lived without flashbacks that exist solely as an excuse to show her in a fat suit ( and not a very convincing one , by the way ) .  catherine zeta-jones makes a believable brat and john cusack fleshes out his obsessed character enough to make him vaguely sympathetic .  by casting himself as the publicist , billy crystal allows himself to do roughly the same thing he does on " comic relief " - stay on the sidelines of the action while tossing off cornball jokes and snarky remarks .  in supporting roles , hank azaria wears out his welcome fast with broad gestures and a spanish accent that speedy gonzales would have deemed " too broad . "  seth green is amusing as a toadie , stanley tucci is very good as a ruthless studio head and christopher walken plays the eccentric director with suitable flair , though he has little to work with .  come to think of it , " little to work with " is the operative phrase for this movie .  as a hollywood satire , " america's sweethearts " is toothless .  as a romance , it is at best a minor pleasure .  such a good cast , such a waste of their efforts .  had it not been taken long ago , a better title for the film would have been " much ado about nothing . " 
pos@ now , lets first look into the history of shark films .  there was the unforgettable jaws .  the exciting jaws 2 . the rather flaky jaws 3d and sometime in the late 90s another film of the same genre that i can't seem to recall ( about the son of jaws returning to wreak revenge or something like that ) .  now , with the magic of cgi , one shark is simply not enough ; in deep blue sea , there are 3 big , mean and really smart ones !  russell frankiln ( jackson ) visits aquatica ( a sea-bound research center ) , where a research is being conducted on the extraction of a hormone substance found uniquely within the shark brain that can cure and reverse the effects of alzheimer's disease .  the substance is small in quantity and because of this , lead researcher dr . susan macalaester genetically alters the shark dna and grows them twice the size with brains as big as humans , naturally producing more of the much treasured hormones .  as sure as the sun sets in the west , a shark breaks lose and wreaks havoc within the facility during a hormone extraction procedure .  with the flexibility offered by cgi , the sharks get more full-length screen time as their predecessors did in those remote-controlled rubber suit days .  gone are the days of people getting pulled under the water with the water turning red right after .  this time , we get to see the entire gobbling action , with floating limbs and all .  so-so acting , expected in most of your average action film .  jackson ( fresh from his jedi master role in the phantom menace ) , takes on the dark-side force of a different kind and fits well with his wise-cracking lines .  ll cool j's cook role as preacher , does for this film what steven seagal's cook could only dream to achieve in his two under siege films .  deep blue sea does not offer any of the psychological thrills that jaws has to offer .  it does however , prove to be a refreshing follow-up within the genre , full of visual thrills , suspense and believe it or not  humour !  its like jurassic park under water .  nothing too stressful , pure entertainment .  renny harlin , you are forgiven ( for making cutthroat island ) . 
neg@  " idle hands " is distasteful , crass and derivative .  if an original thought found its way into this horror-comedy it would die of loneliness .  plus , you have to question the judgment and sensitivity of studio executives who would green light the release of a movie dealing with the slaughter of innocent teen-agers the week after the tragedy in littleton , colo .  the movie is insulting to horror film fans and teen-agers .  the plot , what little there is , deals with anton ( devon sawa ) , a high-school slacker who's hand goes on a murderous rampage after becoming possessed .  along the way the hand kills anton's parents and his two best friends .  the friends , also slackers , are so lazy that they return from the dead because the walk into the light was too far for them .  that is the level of this's atrocity's humor .  the movie treats death as a joke .   " idle hands " is gruesome and morbid .  the performances are stereotypical and cartoonish .  i realize this is supposed to pass for comedy , but recent events have surpassed what is on the screen .  it is not the fault of the filmmakers that real life has overtaken reel life .  and i can only presume that the writers of " idle hands , " terri hughes and ron milbauer , were trying to make some statement about today's young people and their values in a satiric vein .  however , it's hard to laugh at death these days , especially ones involving young people .  with the real horrors of the world put before us on television , a stale pastry such as " idle hands " should be held from release for a few weeks or months to give us time to catch our collective breaths .   " idle hands " is bad , no matter the circumstances in the world outside .  but the context of recent events only heightens its shortcomings .  the time is not right for this type of movie .  and as far as " idle hands " goes , the time may never be right .  this is a movie that shoud be consigned to the trash bin of cinema . 
pos@ only a year after the initial release of " scream , " the horror send-up from veteran horror director wes craven and screenwriter kevin williamson that seemed to breathe new life into the slasher genre , the inevitable sequel " scream 2 " has arrived in our theaters .  while the tongue-in-cheek , parodic element is still noticeable in this film , it's really a sideshow to a broader commentary on violence and the media and a more conventional horror story .  the first film , while often violent and gruesome , was mostly lacking in genuine scares because almost every scene was played for camp value and the discussion of the quirks and cliches of horror movies was nearly constant .  the premise of " scream 2 " is that a series of copycat killings begin when a movie called " stab , " based on a book written by opportunistic reporter gail weathers ( courtney cox ) about the events in " scream , " is released and two audience members are killed during the opening screening .  i had heard about this scene before i went to see the film and was surprised to find this sequence largely lacking in camp comedy .  its conclusion , in which a bleeding , wounded woman stumbles in front of the screen and dies in front of an audience that cheers on because they think it's a publicity stunt , is more surreal and disturbing than anything else .  the satire in " scream 2 " thus takes on a broad focus and gradually evolves into an exploration of media perceptions in general .  although resident horror film geek randy ( jamie kennedy ) is back with fresh dialogue about sequels ( and , interestingly enough , how they are usually inferior to their predecessors ) , the characters in this movie are drawing from other entries in the pop culture encyclopedia as well .  everything from " friends " and " saved by the bell " to " showgirls " and " terminator 2 " is referenced here ; horror is only one of many genres available for lampooning , and there aren't any " wes carpenter " jokes this time .  more importantly , this film portrays characters willing to go to disturbing lengths for media attention as well as characters whose perceptions have clearly been warped by what they have seen on tv and film .  the killings are clearly an imitation of the previous murders from " scream " ( in fact , the culprit even plans to use the influence of horror movies as a courtroom defense ) , weathers exploits the situation for her own notoriety , and one man seems willing to save the heroine's life only if it will earn him an interview on the today show .  understandably , " scream 2 " does not go so far as to actually blame the movies , but rather shows that those who do imitate horror movies are already sick and twisted .  couple that with the fact that several of the characters , most notably the lead character sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) , are fairly well-developed and that there are some genuine moments of spine-chilling suspense , and what we have is a pretty darned good horror movie in its own right .  we don't just get the horror of scary masks and graphic gore - we also get the horror of sympathetic characters who seem helpless as their friends are slaughtered ( and , in one case , a significant character who was an audience favorite even bites the dust ) and whose lives have been reduced to constant fear of a crazed murderer lurking around the corner .  while i have not seen any of his other work , it's easy to see why craven is generally touted as the most sophisticated " slasher film " director , as he clearly cares about something more than just the actual acts of slashing .  unfortunately , " scream 2 " occasionally reverts to the time-honored horror tradition of throwing logic out the window .  for example , several characters seem quite clearly dead and inexplicably turn up alive later - there has been a running gag in both movies about the villain being able to pull off this particular trick , but it also happens with other characters and in an even less believable fashion .  there are also a few scenes in which the killer suddenly appears behind the next victim in a situation such that ( s ) he clearly would have been seen moving in that direction .  as for the question of whether or not " scream 2 " is yet another sequel not as good as its predecessor .   .   .  well , it's hard to say .  i gave the first " scream " 3 1/2 stars as well because it worked pretty consistently as a light-hearted send-up .   " scream 2 " bounces all over the place stylistically , but it does a better job delivering the genuine scares and asking the questions about media violence that were only hinted at in the first installment .  i'm not sure which is the better movie , but i did leave the theater convinced of one thing : sequels , however much randy might argue , do not necessarily suck . 
neg@ america loves convenience .  after all , we're the culture that invented the cell phone , the 24-hour atm , and my most beloved , the remote control .  yet perhaps this time , with ghosts of mars , we have taken our love of convenience to far .  ghosts of mars stars natasha henstridge as a tough as nails , pill-poppin' , martian cop , sent with her squadron to retrieve " demolition " williams ( ice cube ) from a remote mining town for trial back home .  when she and her comrades , appropriately dubbed " the commander , " " the rookies , " and the guy with the cool accent discover the town's residents slaughtered , they are forced to team up with williams to escape from the remaining residents' head-chopping , alien-possessed clutches .  filled with a lovely overuse of storytelling flashbacks , flashes-sideways , and viewpoint changes , ghosts of mars is a hapless mishmash of poorly constructed dialogue and ill-conceived action sequences .  the only thing keeping this film from becoming an incomprehensible mess is the sheer idiotic simplicity of its story .  ripped straight from the pages of a 1970s zombie movie , ghosts leaps from one convenient moment to the next , stopping only to kill the characters which are most convenient to lose .  attempts at character interaction and development are rare and forced .  most of these moments come off as kwik-e-mart wisdom , dispensed heartily around the slushee machine of life by the even-tempered streetwise hand of ice cube .  with a gun in one hand and a dynamite cap in the other , cube reminisces about his street life , comparing the zombie-stomping fun to " me and my brother when we was kids . "  apparently , crime in the bronx has gotten so bad that the residents have actually taken to ritually decapitating one another for entertainment .  but , even in the film's darkest moments , fate conveniently lends a hand , supplying heavily armored transportation and easily accessible rifles and dynamite .  yes , in the future , man may travel to space and conquer mars , but nothing beats a good stick of tnt .  and as we all know , every police station , past , present , or future , keeps a healthy supply on hand .  characters die , heads are lopped off , but they were only supporting roles anyway , so why should we care ?  as long as you have plenty of narcotics , immunity is guaranteed .  eventually though , even the most well-trained zombie alien gets a bit uppity and needs to be taught a lesson .  what better way than by sacrificing a few minor characters to a convenient nuclear detonation , killing anything the machine guns can't handle .  explosions are fun .  and even if the nukes don't get them , the conveniently placed dynamite packs on the train stolen from the set of the road warrior certainly will .  in the end this film defines itself when our cop's tribunal pronounces , " is that all you have to tell us ? "  for , indeed , john carpenter has run out of things to say , and has instead decided to use whatever is convenient to tell a ridiculously bad story . 
pos@ notting hill's trailer is awful : a laughless , schmaltzy montage .  the movie was desperately marketed to the anti-phantom menace crowd , the same lovelorn females who ignored the love letter .  and it apparently worked .  perhaps the presence of julia roberts-whose allure beyond those perfect teeth still escapes me-had a lot to do with notting hill's opening weekend success , but the film's staying power is based on word of mouth .  allow me to spread some more good buzz for notting hill .  grant stars as william thacker , a travel-bookstore owner who works and resides in a tiny english district called notting hill .  into his shop one day wanders famous actress anna scott ( roberts ) .  a common thief , some spilled orange juice , and some stilted conversation leads to their first , highly impetuous ( or is that improbable ? ) , kiss .  days later , william sneaks into her hotel suite under the guise of a magazine journalist , and so begins a passionate , albeit surreptitious , affair .   ( aside : notting hill's portrayal of press junkets is deadly accurate . )  only anna's celebrity-or william's lack thereof-threatens to drive a wedge between them .  richard curtis has tapped into fantasy we all have considered , and for at least its first half-hour the picture's " beauty and the beast " -like scenario is ( romantic ) escapism of the highest order .  as with groundhog day or pleasantville , while watching the high-concept comedy notting hill one constantly imagines him/herself in the lead ; it's william's ordinaryness that entices the spoiled and bored anna .  curtis ( who previously penned four weddings and a funeral ) is also smart enough to know that the unlikely couple's situation is not enough to fuel two hours' worth of entertainment , so some of notting hill's finest moments revolve around william's eccentric friends and family .  by now , dear reader , you've probably heard a lot about rhys ifans' performance as william's imbecilic welsh flatmate .  yes , he's a crowd pleaser , a walking sight gag , but his character is not nearly as involving as the wheelchair-bound ( and appropriately named ) bella ( mckee , the anguished waitress of naked ) or max ( tom mcinnerny ) , her lousy chef of a husband .  in the movie's best sequence , william , anna , and company sit around bloated from max's latest concoction and hold a contest : the last brownie on the table goes to the diner with the saddest life .  the scene ends only as a british writer would end it .  if anything , fantastic bits like these dull the main plot's dramatic impact .  roberts and grant , especially , are appealing , but their relationship is convolutedly interrupted too many times ( four weddings' suffered similar flaws ) , and william and anna ultimately only have one thing in common : they're lonely .   ( worth noting in roberts' and grant's favour : the ubiquitous " i'm just a girl , standing across from a boy , asking him to love her " episode is not nearly so syrupy as it appears in clips , and it features some of the best emoting either actor has ever done . )  notting hill is nonetheless enjoyable ; on the visual side of things , i especially appreciated michell's playful changing-of-the-seasons number .  if only ( and this is a surprisinly minor gripe ) he had lopped off the egregious epilogue ; for a story that thrives on what we bring to it , the filmmakers work too hard to tidy things up , leaving our imaginations in the lurch . 
neg@ georges polti once wrote a paper called " the thirty-six dramatic situations , " in which he asserted the fact that all drama could be defined by no more than thirty-six different situations .  this may be the modern restatement of the biblical prophecy from ecclesiastes , " there's nothing new under the sun . "  the faculty , the latest movie by from dusk till dawn director robert rodriguez , certainly proves this in typical hollywood fashion .  there's not a measureable fraction of original material in this unworthy outing .  drawing elements from both the puppet masters and invasion of the body snatchers , screenwriter kevin williamson ( of scream 2 credit ) gives us a horror tale set in middle america ( ohio ) one eventful fall .  making use of a cast of unusually stock characters , williamson designs an alien invasion that will not be done independence day-style but rather " through the back door . "  parasitic aliens take over the faculty of a run-down high school and soon have infested most of the student body , leaving it up to the ensemble of principal characters to win the day .  the lack of gusto is the movie's major stumbling block .  even though the genre has seen movies that have a lack for quality such as this , they've been saved by an energetic approach .  this casts more than a shadow of a doubt on williamson's ability , who enjoyed success with the wes craven-directed scream but couldn't pull anything solid in for this outing or i know what you did last summer .  although he designs the faculty with more of a sci-fi bent than his typical slasher picture , it still comes down to the same results : throw the stock characters in a steel cage match and see who comes out alive .  on that level , the main roles are played by virtual unknowns .  only the recognizeable elijah wood ( deep impact ) is at the front ; other than that , the screen veterans are saved for the minor roles of the alien teachers .  perhaps williamson has it in mind to champion these up-and-comers to the fame that their scream and last summer counterparts achieved ; but to do that , they'd all need to star in their own wb television show about the horrors of puberty a la " dawson's creek . "  needless to say the acting is far from top notch , nor does necessity ask that it should be .  there is a moment or two of genuine horror , but unfortunately williamson and rodriguez did not take the story far enough in the sci-fi direction to make any use of it .  in sum , the faculty was just one long shot that did not pay off . 
pos@ i've never been a member of the robin williams fan club .  a little bit of his improvisationaly schtick goes a long way , and i sometimes feel as though i'm watching a 40-year-old class clown .  in his films , williams has often tried to balance his mania with touchy-feely emotion , leading to wildly uneven performances .  mrs .  doubtfire seemed ready-made for the same problems , but instead it proves to be williams' best comic screen project yet .  while it still contains some characteristic self-indulgence , mrs .  doubtfire is nonetheless an engaging belly-laugh comedy served up with high energy .  williams stars as daniel hillard , a cartoon voiceover artist with a penchant for irresponsible behavior .  one such incident proves one too many for wife miranda ( sally field ) , and she files for a divorce .  unemployed , living in a disastrously unkempt apartment and faced with limited time with his three beloved children , daniel decides to respond to miranda's ad for an afternoon housekeeper .  he turns to his brother frank ( harvey fierstein ) , a theatrical makeup artist , and emerges as euphegenia doubtfire , a matronly 65-year-old englishwoman .  daniel uses his access to the house to keep an eye on miranda's flirtation with a wealthy client ( pierce brosnan ) , to spend time with the children , and to learn something about responsible parenting , all the while trying to keep his identity hidden from the people who know him best .  mrs . doubtfire has to overcome a mountain of implausibilities to work , and basically it does so .  the most crucial is that no one in the family recognizes daniel , and thanks to the fantastic special makeup that's instantly believable .  it may be one of the most convincing transformations ever committed to film , making dustin hoffman's dorothy michaels look like milton berle .  more problematic was a series of calls daniel makes to miranda posing as nannies from hell ; it's a bit hard to swallow that she doesn't recognize any of the voices as her husband's .  perhaps the biggest contrivance we're asked to swallow is that daniel could make a quick change into mrs . doubtfire in a few minutes .  there's more to realistic makeup than slapping on a latex mask .  fortunately , these are inconsistencies which only attract attention as the credits roll .  during the film , i was generally too busy laughing .  after getting off to a slow start involving too much of williams' riffing , mrs .  doubtfire kicks into high gear once the wig and pads are in place .  daniel's frantic attempt to fool a court officer is wonderful , as is the climactic restaurant sequence , even though i saw the resolutions coming a mile away .  clearly , most of the credit for doubtfire's success goes to robin williams .  it took putting him in drag , but for once he plays a comic character that isn't just robin williams with a different name .  he thoroughly inhabits euphegenia doubtfire , and seems to relish the scenes in which he gets to play her as blunt and foul-mouthed .  wisely , he never aims for saintly .  his responses to the intrusion of new suitor stu are often petty , but the kind of thing most of us might do with the benefit of anonymity .  it's one of mrs .  doubtfire's charms that neither daniel nor miranda is perfect , just people trying to be better .  as miranda , sally field is solid in a background role , and pierce brosnan is nicely understated as stu .  the children are also good , although mara wilson is almost oppressively cute as the youngest .  the supporting players merely step aside and allow williams to do his thing .  it's easy to see mrs .  doubtfire as little more than tootsie warmed over , and it's true that there are both broad themes and specific details in common .  but mrs .  doubtfire manages to carve out its own space , particularly through the surprisingly honest moments involving a judge's decision and the ultimate status of daniel and miranda's relationship .  there's nothing dazzlingly new in mrs .  doubtfire , but there are plenty of laughs , and good comedies are always in short supply .  and it's nice to see robin williams just act for a change . 
neg@ years ago , robin williams made _jumanji_ , a brilliant achievement in special effects , but a travesty on nearly every other level .  the same can be said for _what dreams may come_ , a boring , illogical , weepie-wannabe that left my senses numb .  don't get me wrong : i love breathtaking special effects and pulse-pounding imagery .  _brazil_ is on my personal top ten .  _the city of lost children_ is a great film because of its outlandish scenarios .  i even love _2001_ and _last year at marienbad_ , being in the minority amidst my friends .  _what dreams may come_ , imagery aside , has little daring thought to complement its imagery .  the daring thought it _does_ have is never fully realized .  it's idea of a plot is so lukewarm , that it insults the bigger questions it raises .  it would have been better if the filmmakers rid the film of the live action sequences , put on an electronica soundtrack , and sell it as one of those popular _mind's eye_ videos .  robin williams plays chris nielsen , who dies too prematurely--not only in the story , but before we have a chance to really know and care for him .  the director , vincent ward , and the screenwriter ronald bass , have chosen to tell his life story in flashbacks while having the foreground story focus on his experience with the afterlife .  big mistake .  it would have been far better to take the half-hour or so needed to tell his life story first ( ala _it's a wonderful life_ ) , so that i can build up respect for him , so i could know and possibly care for him , his children , and his long-suffering wife ( played superbly by annabella sciorra ) .  instead , the filmmakers insult my intelligence by rushing into the story , expecting that the film to grow in depth as it progresses .  it doesn't .  so in the afterlife , chris learns that ( a ) people still don't meet god , ( b ) that our thoughts are reality , and ( c ) time does not exist there .  hmm . . .  i+ll grant one of those silly giant ideas for the sake of the narrative .   ( the " not meeting god " part still irks at me , but perhaps there was no possible way to film it and give it due respect ) .  that said , this alternate reality still makes no possible sense .  read on . . .  chris' wife commits suicide .  since suicides go to hell , chris would be separated from his wife forever .  the important question is , is heaven really heaven if you are separated from the one you love ?  good question .  and i like good thought-provoking questions .  i don+t like it when the filmmakers deviate from the question .  i _loathe_ it when the filmmakers deviate from the question so that the film becomes a popular rescue film , especially a rescue film which does not take its underlying premise seriously .  i _really_ loathe it when it+s story is no longer run by logic , but by special effects .  hey chris : did you forget ?  your thoughts are _real_ .  they are more _real_ than the physical world , according to the new-age screenplay .  so , why don+t you conjure up positive thoughts of annie , and let that run wild ?  and then she would appear before you , and you two would live in happy bliss for eternity ?  because there would be no movie , that+s why .  and albert the angel ( played by miscast cuba gooding , jr . ) says bluntly : " that+s fantasy . "  umm . . .  if your thoughts are more real than the physical , then fantasy is not fantasy , but real .  surely some eastern meditation specialist would be able to tell you that .  and if you happen to think that you are an unimaginative person , and that your thoughts aren't big enough to sustain you for eternity , well , in all due respect , that's why i don't subscribe to this theology .  all due respect .  another idea , based on " time , ( pause ) , does not exist here ! "  so chris , spend your eternity with annie , as she is on earth , reliving your favorite memories , or hang out with her when she was growing up .  you+ve got eternity : perhaps you can hang around long enough and learn not to freak her out .  and forcing her to write " i still exist " in her diary , imo , is just too tacky .  there are many other ideas , all of which are a hundred times better than what+s unraveled in the plot .  the great aforementioned question is sidetracked into gimmicky subplots that have been done before , and just come out stale .  most insulting is the subplot where important people in chris+ life appear in heaven differently than he expects , so when they finally show themselves , he realizes they were with him all along .  and when this happens , the film runs in slow motion , as if to build emotion .  _gag me with a spoon_ .  so the only things for me to like are sciorra+s effective performance , who rises far above this mundane material , and the special effects .  please note that while i enjoyed some of the visuals , i did not enjoy _all_ of them : some of the images looked like sandy duncan universe , everybody floating up and down in invisible strings .  it sounds like a joke , but it+s really true : i really tried to block out the dialogue , and figure out what music would best work as an alternative soundtrack .  my vote goes to a rare cd called " never say die " ( 1981 ) from petra , a christian rock group .  it+s pretty good , and they have a song about annie , who commits suicide .   ( it+s too late for annie/she+s gone away for good/there+s so much we'd have told her/and now we wish we could/but it+s too late . . . ) .  melancholic , yes .  depressing , yes .  but far more entertaining . . .  so , in case you don+t know , let me be straight .  suicide--bad .  _don+t do it_ .  no . no . no . ( got it ? --you  shouldn+t have to pay $7 . 50 to hear this in an awful robin williams schmaltzfest . ) 
pos@ in chocolat , a chocolate shop owner tells her customers to look into a spinning object of obscure textures , patterns , and lines , hoping she'll be able to foresee the kind of chocolate they'll most enjoy .  some scoff the idea , but everyone who gazes into the complexity of the spinning object winds up seeing something different than the next , revealing personality traits which the person may not have known they had before .  this can easily stand as a model for chocolat as a whole : on the surface , it appears to be a light , fluffy fable with no depth or true worth , but when one takes a second , deeper look , chocolat's true colors begin to shine through .  making a bold statement about organized religion and those who practice it , lasse hallstrom's chocolat is flawlessly acted and meticulously crafted-not to mention one of the best films of the year .  what gives chocolat its magic , much like hallstrom's 1999 winner of two academy awards , the cider house rules , is its willingness to say what's on its mind without holding back to prevent offending audiences .  the bold and honest message hallstrom conveys with chocolat will no doubt outrage a select group of viewers , but those who are willing to suspend their bitterness because they feel they are being intimidated or attacked should find themselves to be in agreement with what the film says about narrow-mindedness .  chocolat centers its story around the small french village of lansquenet , where majority rules , and the majority lives by only one law : religion .  the bulk of the townspeople ( with few exceptions ) are preparing for the sacred time of abstinence , lent , but when the independent thinking , seemingly non-religious vianne rocher ( juliette binoche ) and her daughter anouk ( victoire thivisol ) make the village their home , the people will be tempted beyond belief by the mouth-watering confections in the chocolate shop vianne opens .  many are predictably opposed and deeply offended by vianne's opening of the chocolate shop just in time for lent , especially the mayor , comte de reynaud ( a cartoon-like alfred molina ) , who will stop at nothing to put her out of business .  on the other hand , the shop is a delight to others , including the cranky armande voizin ( judi dench ) , who sits day by day in vianne's shop , telling the single mother about her unfortunate detached relationship with her grandson ( aurelien parent-koening ) , which comes as a result of his mother ( carrie-ann moss ) believing armande is a bad influence , as she does not hold the same , strict religious beliefs that she does .  also a fan of the chocolate is the nervous wreck josephine muscat , whose husband is constantly beating her , to whom vianne offers a home and befriends .  juliette binoche is charming and honest as vianne , genuinely capturing her character's determination to turn the narrow-minded townspeople into more happy , independent human beings , but most of chocolat's success is unquestionably a result of the remarkable performances of the supporting actresses .  lena olin , previously nominated for an oscar in 1989 , deserves her second nomination for her earnest , moving portrayal of a lost , scared woman torn between staying true to her battering , manipulative husband or leaving him to live the life which for which she longs .  judi dench is sharp , incisive , and occasionally greatly touching as armande voizin .  carrie ann-moss , in what is likely to be her first largely noticed ( and acclaimed ) role since the matrix , shows a more solid side of her acting skills not previously seen , crafting a character that the viewer both sympathizes with and despises simultaneously .  victoire thivisol shows much promise as anouk , a young girl hoping her always-on-the-move mother will eventually settle down .  a trade ad for chocolat sums up best the power the actresses have on screen with the tagline : " five extraordinary women , one extraordinary movie . "  that's not to say the men don't do their share , though : alfred molina makes for a sly and utterly repugnant antagonist , hugh o'conor adds quite a bit of comic relief as the priest who seems to not even know why he is who he is , and johnny depp gives a strong performance as the pirate roux , who enters the film late in the game and sparks the romantic interest of vianne .  the technical aspects of chocolat are strong across the board : lasse hallstrom directs his enchanting fable with great care , perfectly balancing the elements of each genre to be found within the film .  cinematographer roger pratt brings an atmospheric , fairy tale look to the film , and rachel portman's masterful score is her best and most memorable since the cider house rules .  chocolat , adapted by robert nelson jacobs from the joanne harris novel , is a wonderful little treat of a film , one that will most likely win over the hearts of audiences and the votes of academy members this winter , and the aggressive backing of miramax films assures the latter .  while not as powerful as the cider house rules , lasse hallstrom's chocolat is a film which works on all levels-as a drama , a comedy , a fable , a romance , and a fairy tale .  and it even lives up to its name : it is delicious to savor the taste of , easy to digest , and , like all excellent chocolate , it is memorable for days afterward .  the bottom line : chocolat is pure pleasure . 
neg@ working in the motion picture industry must be a constant source of frustration for a front-line african american actress like jada pinkett smith .  despite being one of the freshest talents available , pinkett smith has often been relegated to playing thankless supporting parts ( a low down dirty shame , the nutty professor ) .  the problem is , of course , that there aren't many good roles available for black women .  take away the likes of waiting to exhale , set it off , soul food , and eve's bayou , and all that's left is a chance to be someone's girlfriend , a local whore , or a murder victim .  as a result , for pinkett smith's first opportunity atop the marquee , she is stuck in a stupid , formulaic romantic comedy with the unpromising title of woo .  actually , woo , the latest directorial effort from daisy v . s .  mayer ( party girl ) , could have been worse than it is .  the film offers a few funny ( albeit juvenile ) moments and the on-screen relationship between pinkett smith's woo and tommy davidson's tim is appealing on those rare occasions when the two aren't forced to play it dumb for the sake of an endless barrage of cheap gags .  unfortunately , huge portions of the movie are insulting to the intelligence of anyone with a triple-digit i . q .  the situations are painfully contrived , the main characters are lifted right out of sit-coms , and the supporting players are so incredibly stupid that i wondered whether they all participated in some kind of " free lobotomy " lab experiment .  woo is a spontaneous , energetic young woman who has been looking for love in all the wrong places .  her latest relationship , with a testosterone-overdosed drug-dealer , came to an abrupt end when she refused to wear a beeper .  now , her transvestite/medium friend celestrial ( girlina ) predicts that she's about to meet mr . right , and that he'll be a virgo .  later that day , woo is given an opportunity to go out on a blind date with tim , a shy man with a penchant for neatness and order , who just happens to be a virgo .  it's not love at first sight , however .  things get off to a rocky start when tim makes an awkward pass , and they get even worse when the pair arrives at a swanky restaurant to enjoy a " quiet " dinner .  in the one-hundred year history of motion pictures , there have been a ton of bad " white " movies about mismatched lovers , so i suppose it's only fair that we get a " black " effort of the same low caliber .  as in all romantic comedies , we know from the beginning that woo and tim are going to end up together .  the question is , are their courtship rituals entertaining ?  in a good entry to the genre , the audience becomes caught up in the love story , no matter how familiar it is .  in woo , the constant reliance upon unfunny , moronic humor sinks the project .  for those who enjoy spotting continuity gaffes , there's a huge one in woo involving a corvette with a broken window that miraculously repairs itself ( added to that is the mystery of how the car looses its top ) .  sadly , that's one of the film's most enjoyable sequences , and the entertainment value is entirely unintentional .  despite exuding charm from every pore , there's little that pinkett smith and davidson can do to save their characters or david c . johnson's script .  since it misses the mark by so much , a better name for woo might have been whoops . 
pos@ what if one of our cities became the target for terror ?  what can we do ?  what can america really do about the increasing threat of terrorism ?  what basic human rights are we willing to sacrifice to prevent another oklahoma city disaster ?  so far america has been the leading nation , opposing the fundamentalist terrorists around the world .  it is the land of opportunities .  it is the land of freedom .  but what if it became the new target ?  this dark fantasy has unfortunately a very strong grounding in reality .  when a special branch of the united states military , under the command of general william devereaux ( bruce willis ) , takes prisoner suspected terrorist mastermind sheik ahmed bin talal , islamic fundamentalists across the world take notice .  the only warning the fbi receives is a single , cryptic message : " release him . "  then all hell breaks loose in new york .  a bus is destroyed , killing 25 civilians .  a broadway theater is bombed .  hostages are taken at a school .  as the wave of terrorist activity crests , the president must consider if the only way to save the city and break the grip of fear is to declare martial law .  devereaux argues against that eventuality , but is nevertheless ready to lead 10 , 000 men into action on american soil .  another person not in favor of martial law is anthony hubbard ( denzel washington ) , the fbi agent in charge of investigating the terrorist activities .  his staff is comprised of smart , energetic , intelligent men and women very much unlike the usual group o !  f moronic feds we're used to seeing in movies .  hubbard develops an uneasy alliance with cia agent elise kraft ( annette bening ) , whose department knows more about the situation than they're willing to reveal .  but the attacks escalate .  the fbi are helpless , chasing an invisible enemy .  the land is under siege .  they have lost control . . a  terror is coming from within . .  what's great about this film is that it is made as if holding up a mirror to life .  it reflects reality .  and that's why it makes such an impact .  edward zwick has created a clever , well written and terrifying thriller that may very well be one of the best films of the season .  the director manages to tell several stories simultaneously .  and so his film plays on several levels , never loosing focus on its main objective .  he is exploring the abuse of power , the distrustful relationships that exist between various segments of the u . s . government ( the army , the fbi , and the cia ) .  he takes a look at the complexities inherent when so many secrets and lies are involved .  the palestinian community in 1998 new york is treated exactly as japanese americans were during world war ii .  there are concentration camps and unlawful interments , all in the name of the " greater good . "  in the latter part of the film the land of opportunities looses its heart and soul -- freedom .  was that what the terror !  ists really wanted ?  this film has evoked protests and objections from the arab-american population in the u . s . and n . y . especially .  but to me these protests seem unnecessary .  zwick is careful to not step over the line and make the palestinians typical hollywood bad guys .  the script is therefore wonderfully balanced .  agent hubbard's best friend and loyal colleague frank haddad ( tony shalhoub ) is lebanese-american .  and it is quite often you hear lines such as " my first boyfriend was palestinian .  they seduce you with their suffering " or " they love this country as much as we do . "  but no matter how you twist this matter , you won't get away from the fact that when it comes to world wide terrorism it is arab-speaking population who are in the great majority .  more to the point , the siege demonstrates the injustice of blanket condemnation of any ethnic group by depicting the unfair treatment of all arab-americans by the u . s . military .  and thus this film does not serve as a source for discrimination in any !  way .  denzel washington is dashing as always .  in this role he is much more determined and stronger than usual .  anette bening is enjoyable and believable as a shadowy cia operative who prefers espionage , a network of snitches and seduction to gather information . .  bruce willis is terrifying as the sadist , hungry for power , that never looses his connection with the audience , since his point of view is not too hard to understand .  the film is elegantly shaped .  the scenes are easily floating into each other and the film never seems overlong .  zwick knows exactly how to provoke tension , horror and emotions and does it with a rarely observed professionalism .  he tightens the intensity as the events progress .  and when a plot twist comes , it actually is surprising .  it is not a film drained in patriotism , like the work of roland emerich .  nor is it a film that portrays explosions purely for entertainment values .  it is a daring picture that has courage enough to undertake such a risky story and difficult journey .  it has courage enough to get involved in politics .  it questions our foreign policies , mentality and defense .  i must admit that it ends rather disappointing , as the director turns the patriotism way up and innovation down .  but despite of that , it is certainly an intelligent and thrilling film that provokes emotions and thoughts ; a virtue that few summer films can boast of .   " this is the u . s . army .  it's a broadsword , not a scalpel .  believe me , you do not want us in an american city " - gen . william devereaux , " the siege " 
neg@ capsule : combine one quart of raiders of the lost ark , a dash of a jackie chan movie ( sans jackie ) , two teaspoons of gun- and swordplay , and a dollop of cgi .  simmer for 100 minutes .  yields : zilch .  the phantom is a depressing and tired retread of so many earlier , better movies that after the fifteen-minute mark i started cataloguing them out loud .  it's hard to make a good action-adventure movie that doesn't simply recycle its predecessors , and i've seen movies that even at least did the recycling gracefully .  the phantom , allegedly based on the long-running comic of the same name , doesn't even bother to be graceful .  it's a stupid and incompetent movie in too many ways to list , but i'll try .  the film opens up with a " prelude " sequence that looks like it was slashed to ribbons in the editing and then given a heavy voice-over to compensate for whatever got thrown out .  we go from there to a jungle sequence that , i swear to god , recycles the truck-chase scene from raiders of the lost ark note-for-note , possibly even shot-for-shot , right down to the moment where indy wrenched open the door and slung one of the drivers out into the brush -- and then goes on to rip off the rope-bridge scene from " sorcerer " as well !  sorcerer , as you may well remember , was a remake of a french movie , the wages of fear , in which a bunch of lowlifes were paid piles of money to drive a truck loaded with nitro through horrible jungle terrain .  both versions of that movie were far more interesting than this flick , but i've got my job to do , so back to the salt mines we go .  anyway , the cinematic theft doesn't stop there .  or at least the lack of inspiration .  there isn't a single thing here we haven't seen , and it's not given to us in a way that remotely evokes our interest .  we have ( where's my list ? )  a bad girl , a tough good girl , a secret cave hideaway ( which seems inspired more by dr .  no than anything else ) , a boardroom meeting that drips with greed and venality , magical artifacts of terrible power , and cary-hiroyuki tagawa wasted in another stupid role where he gets to wear a fu manchu mustache and sneer a lot and generally humiliate himself .  what else is there ?  the plot is a waste of time .  the sets alternate between big but hokey -- and tiny and still hokey .  there are lines in the script that are just begging to be mst3ked -- and i'm sure once mike and the 'bots get the cash , they'll stick it on their sked .  the only thing in the movie worth noting is billy zane -- he's a good actor , and he tries very hard , even when the script is sending him down one dead alley of a scene after another .  all i can say is that i pray this isn't the beginning of the end for him -- although it sure looks like the final nail in the coffin for the comic-book super-hero movie . 
pos@ earlier this year , the movie holy man opened to a meager box office receipt and to indifference from audiences and critics .  a real charmer of a movie , it's possible that the subject matter was too hip or trendy to attract any real audience .  now , at the end of 1998 , comes waking ned devine , a comedy which inspires the same vein of easygoing laughter .  there's no substantial difference between the two other than a more refined atmosphere -- they strike all the same chords -- but still , ned devine is a movie worth seeing .  the plot is interesting and robust : the latest lottery winner is ned devine ( jimmy keogh ) , of tullymore , ireland .  ned's prize is over six million pounds , but the shock of winning killed the poor old man , and the check remains unclaimed .  enter jackie o'shea ( ian bannen ) and michael o'sullivan ( david kelly ) , the only two residents who are aware the winner is in their village .  the two men eventually find the ticket , and decide that if michael can convince the lotto authorities that he's actually ned , the entire town can reap the benefits ; their only adversary is an ancient old woman ( eileen dromey ) who sees more profit in reporting the fraud .  ian bannen and david kelly truly shine as jackie and michael .  jackie , stocky and large , is the brains behind the operation ; michael , scrawny and short , is the method man .  the two contrast each other delightfully , and at the same time remain sympathetic to the audience .  every viewer is sure to like both of them .  there are other minor subplots included as well , such as an unlikely romance between a local girl and the town pig farmer .  this appears quite inconsequential until the end , and even with a startling revelation it's a tad bit unnecessary .  overall , waking ned devine has a predictable outcome , and plot twists are never really taken seriously .  the ending , a very hilarious and very ironic twist of fate , somehow fits with the twisted sense of humor the movie exhibits throughout .  the kirk jones script is indeed off-the-cuff .  in a way , waking ned devine is exactly like the class of people it presents : warm , friendly , outgoing , and jovial .  it's the perfect kind of comedy , a real gem of a tale that sets up a trivial plot outline by which to introduce a sympathetic cast of characters and a string of jokes .  there's nothing remotely serious or grounded for more than a moment or two , because the spirit of ned devine is a lighthearted one .  indeed , it's one of the year's best feel-good movies -- 91 minutes of unrestrained joy that no one should miss . 
neg@  " shagadellic ! " , " groovy , baby ! "   " smashing ! "  adorn the 1/4 page ad for this movie tabbed as " the #1 comedy in america " as of may 8th .  did we attend the same movie ? !  at 87 minutes it seemed overlong , like a snl skit on steroids , and at any length it seemed unfunny .  yes , the sets and costumes were an interesting exaggeration of 60s pop frills , and yes , the concept , dealing with a 60s secret agent/pop icon ( played by myers ) awakened from his cryogenic slumber to battle his arch enemy ( dr .  evil , also played by myers ) in the present day , had a great deal of potential .  fun costumes and scenery and potential do not a movie make so lets throw in a hefty dose of bathroom humor .  don't get me wrong , i like a good " bubbles in the bathtub joke " as much as the next person , but to have this type of humor be the funniest thing about your movie is a waste of yuor talent and my money .  but , the way things work these days in the movie business , all a film has to do is call itself the funniest and people will believe it .  i do give this film stars because of the sets , costumes , and sadly , unmet potential . 
pos@ at one point during brian de palma's crime epic scarface , the radiant michelle pfeiffer turns to a ranting al pacino and pops a question that the audience has no doubt been wanting to ask for themselves : " can't you stop saying 'fuck' all the time ? "  fucking good question , that .  it may not be an honour that instills the filmmakers with pride , but as far as i can tell oliver stone's script contains the said expletitive more times than any other film in cinema history .  yet it would be a shame if bad language is all de palma's scarface is remembered for , because this is a damn fine gangstar flick .  the overall structure is similar to howard hawks' 1932 original , but this time the scene has switched to miami , florida and our anti-hero's chosen vice is cocaine traffiking .  pacino , sporting a thick cuban accent , gives one the best performances of his career ( golden globe nominated ) as tony montana , a cuban refugee with a criminal past who flees castro and comes to america to live the american dream .  and live it out he does , with lashings of violence , abuse , murder and the funny white powder .  from his earliest jobs as a drug runner for various middlemen , tony montana makes it clear to everyone he meets that he's not a man to be fucked ( sorry ) .  soon he's the king of the cocaine heap , but his hot head and an increasingly out of control drug addiction prove his undoing .   " never do your own stash " , warns one character early in the film .  as sure as night follows day , the emperor of miami eventually falls .  writer oliver stone and director brian de palma make an explosive combination here .  stone's script offers solid storytelling and some fine character development .  montana is fascinating ; uneducated but calculating , a straight shooter who speaks from the heart ; an ambitious , violent man yet one with a conscience .  a man fiercely protective of his beautiful 20 year old sister , not wanting her to be sucked into the glitzy , dangerous world which he inhabits .  pacino is dynamite , taking to the role with a brooding , bristling energy which in his more recent films has often degenerated into just simple overracting .  pfeiffer also registers strongly as the gangstar mole with no inner life .  only once does tony express real affection for her and his desire to have children , and even then you sense all he really wants is a regular screw and a beautiful object to show off to his friends , and she's happy to oblige .  this isn't as meaty a role for pfieffer as sharon stone's was in casino , but its an effective one nonetheless and she aquits herself well .  as director , de palma sets up a number of dramatic scenes with his typical stylistic brauva .  the escalating tension he creates in various mob situations - a drug deal gone wrong , an assination attempt - is often thrilling , and in this respect he is every bit the equal of scorese and coppola .  where he differs from , say , coppola's godfather trilogy is in his overall treatment .  coppola gives his crime sagas an operatic sweep , whereas in scarface de palma opts for a grittier feel .  and it perfectly suits the material .  the only major botch is giorgio moroder's mostly crap synthesier score .  it's just not right , and unfortunately compromises the impact of some otherwise good scenes .  as expected , scarface is very violent at times , but you shouldn't be watching gangster movies if that upsets you .  at over two and a half hours in length it's a true epic , and if you're a fan of the genre you'll love f * * k-filled minute of it . 
neg@ this is the kind of movie that makes one appreciate disney's live- action george of the jungle .  tarzan and the lost city , the latest attempt to bring edgar rice burrough's legendary hero to the big screen , is one of the most inept and ill-timed of any tarzan adventure so far .  badly conceived and poorly executed , tarzan and the lost city appears headed for a quick trip to video store shelves .  i have no idea why the producers chose now to bring back tarzan ; it's not as if there are legions of new fans clamoring for his next movie .  furthermore , it's even more curious that this film is rated pg , which , by definition , rules out any sex or explicit violence .  and , while i'm not advocating the excesses embraced by the 1981 bo derek version of the story , tarzan deserves a slightly more adult approach than the one used in the embarrassing production .  of course , no tweaking of the content to change the rating could have saved tarzan and the lost city , since the film's troubles originated with the script and were propagated all the way down the line .  imagine george of the jungle stripped of all ( intentional ) humor , and you have a fair idea of what this tarzan is like .  with its uninspired action and tepid adventure sequences , the film barely registers a pulse .  anyone in search of a relatively entertaining , family jungle adventure should check out the 1994 version of the jungle book , which uses the same basic elements to much better effect .  the only worthwhile element of tarzan and the lost city is the pretty scenery ( which , unfortunately , includes the two lead actors ) .  the film doesn't attempt to re-tell the origin story ? the thinking is that it has been done often enough .  instead , tarzan and the lost city introduces us to lord graystoke a . k . a . john clayton a . k . a . tarzan the ape man ( casper van dien ) several days before his marriage to lady jane porter ( jane march ) .  he is living happily in england , enjoying the benefits of being a land-owning noble .  meanwhile , in central africa , the dastardly nigel ravens ( steven waddington ) , a self-proclaimed scholar and explorer , believes he has found the way to the lost city of opar , which he calls the cradle of civilization .  on the way there , he and his band of mercenaries do all sorts of nasty things , like burning native villages , to earn the wrath of the locals .  one shaman , determined to stop ravens from unearthing opal , sends a mystical message to tarzan for help .  with lady jane following close behind , he returns to the jungle where he was born .  its patently obvious that casper van dien ( one of the pretty-boy heroes of starship troopers ) was not hired on the basis of his acting ability .  with his plastic facial expressions , monotone voice , and complete inability to make convincing animal noises , his range rivals that of steven seagal .  his pecs , however , are impressive , and director carl schenkel makes sure that he is given every opportunity to show them off .  jane march , on the other hand , has to keep her shirt on , which may be a first for her .  some six years ago , march give a solid performance in jean jacques annaud's steamy the lover .  since then , she made the career-killing decision of appearing opposite bruce willis in the color of night , which exploited her every acting defiency .  tarzan continues this trend .  march may be attractive , but , at least judging by this performance , she can't act .  meanwhile , steven waddington has serious trouble summoning up the menace necessary to be a really detestable bad guy .  instead , he turns out to be little more than a nuisance .  the story line is pure formula , which has largely been true throughout the years for almost all of the tarzan movies .  the problem is that this one seems so childish and lifeless .  the romantic elements are all contrived ? in fact , lady jane's presence is necessary only so she can be captured and subsequently rescued by her buff fiance .  the special effects are truly bottom-of-the-barrel ( including some laughably bad men in ape costumes ? apparently , animatronics were too expensive for this production ) .  and , of course , as with all jungle movies , there are the obligatory cute animals .  over the years , the legend of tarzan has been one of the most popular sources for film series material .  the most famous ape man was johnny weismuller , but no less than two dozen other actors have essayed the part ( including gordon scott , who is widely believed to be the best actor to tackle the role ) .  weismuller made 12 tarzan features ; van dien will probably fall 11 short of that number .  and , having seen tarzan and the lost city , i would argue that the movie-going public would have been well served if he had missed by 12 . 
pos@ this sunday afternoon i had the priviledge of attending a private screening at the sony astor cinema in new york city , of james cameron's most heralded film , titanic .  postponed from last summer , with an escalated budget that makes it the most expensive movie in history , this was one film i was eager to preview .  so , is this movie going to sink or swim this holiday ?  my best guess . . . . it will sink , though with many awards attatched to its hull .  no doubt , titanic is the most elaborate disaster movie ever made .  it boasts the most amazing effects that i have ever seen done to date .  to see a ship fall apart , with actual people running across the ship , flying across the deck , and falling to the water , is just amazing to look at .  the effects are so stunningly realistic , you would swear you were looking at actual footage .  but titanic is more than a disaster movie , and that's where the problem lies .  there is a love story attatched that nearly ruins the entire premise .  i'll give a capsule summary of the story without spoiling anything for you :  the film begins with a modern day excavation of sorts of the sunken titanic .  we see actual footage of the sunken ship , as cammeron had set up special cameras to film the wreckage on the ocean floor .  bill paxton leads the expedition , in search of sunken treasure .  what he finds instead , leads him to a mysterious old woman who recounts her tale of the titanic voyage .  we meet rose ( kate winslet ) , a young woman , who comes from an upper-class family .  rose is to be wed to a man she does not love .  we meet jack ( leonardo dicaprio ) , a young man , who comes from a poor financial background , and wins a ticket aboard the titanic , in a poker game .  the two meet under interesting circumstances , and the love story begins .  add in a jealous fiance , and a not-so-nice law officer played by david warner , and you have a story that , well , gets a bit overplayed and oversappy .  i must add , at this point , that the most likeable character in the movie is played by kathy bates , as a woman with " new money " who is a lot less uptight than the other rich folk on the ship .  she is a pleasure to see on screen .  when the ship does hit the iceberg at exactly 1 : 40 into the film , and eventually sinks , you never really feel for any of these characters .  the film is just loaded with unlikeable rich snobs and other folk you never really get a grasp on .  the effects are tremendous .  from the roars of gears and pumps in the engine room , to a doomed ship cracking at the seams , this is an effects picture that looks and sounds like no other .  we saw titanic in dolby digital surround , and by far , it is the best sounding movie i have ever seen .  my friend commented it was the best sound mix he has ever heard .  when people are in the water , at film's end , you are surrounded by the voices of lost soles .  titanic runs far too long .  the movie is 3 hours and 15 minutes in length .  and , while most of the first 2 . 5 hours runs very fast and well-paced , the final 45 minutes almost comes to a sudden stop , and you realize that this sappy love story has to finish itself out before the movie finally ends .  don't get me wrong about titanic . . . . it's  not a bad as i am making it out to be .  it really is an exceptionaly well-made film .  the costumes and sets are incredible , and true to the time period .  the ship is painstakingly created exactly true to form , as we see actual pictures of the modern-day wreckage , transformed into the movie depiction .  this film will certainly win on effects , costume , set design and sound .  cameron has certainly made his best film to date .  unfortunately , titanic is not a best picture candidate .  it just doesn't have a strong supporting story .  it's an exceptional disaster film with sappy filler inside .  it just doesn't have the emotional impact that i suspect mr . cameron was shooting for .  i predict that titanic will open to likeable reviews .  it is a film worth seeing .  i predict that it will only do moderately well at the box office .  with its extreme running time , and lack of enough robust to get substantial word-of-mouth , i expect that it will do even better on home video .  this will certainly be the definitive ac3 movie for all you home theater enthusiasts .  titanic opens december 19th , and is released by paramount pictures and twentieth century-fox .  i give titanic 3 stars ( .  that's not bad .  ron epstein  riginally posted in home theater forum === 
neg@ making your first feature film ain't easy .  assemble a decent , if not , strong cast , as writer/director robert moresco has done with one eyed king , and you're already ahead of the game .  but rehash old plot lines , tired dialogue , and standard clich ? s , and a well-intentioned effort such as this one could jeopardize your chance at a second feature film .  how many more movies do we need about a rough neighborhood full of lifelong friends hopelessly turned to crime or worse ?  the enormous catalog of such movies might dissuade a filmmaker from making yet another , but here we have it .  again .  five irish kids in nyc's hell's kitchen make an overemotional pact over some stolen rings on an anonymous rooftop .  with teary music .  and slow motion .  in the film's first scene .  the kids grow up to be fairly worthless adults , unable or unwilling to make their way out of the heat of the kitchen .  leading the clueless pack is william baldwin as a good-hearted guy who watches out for his buddies and is in tight with local mob head armand assante .  i'd like to say that his character gets involved over his head in some sort of blah , blah , blah , but all we seem to get are little tastes of possible plot points .  he's concerned about buddy jason gedrick's heroin abuse .  he sticks up for jim breuer after he impregnates baldwin's character's sister .  he looks into who might be pushing the most moronic-looking counterfeit cash ever made ( a genuinely funny touch ) .  but none of this ever really amounts to anything .  it seems that moresco's greater concern is to provide that intangible " slice of life " , that flavor of the neighborhood that everyone's been trying to evoke since scorsese's early work .  so , we get the drunk guys , hugging and singing together at the local bar , to prove to us that they really love each other .   ( do people actually do this ! ? )  we get a lot of tough street talk -- usually mumbled for effect -- and a whole lot of the f-word , whether it sounds like it fits or not .  we also get a handful of good actors in small roles that seem to lack purpose .  bruno kirby , chazz palminteri , you know , guys you've seen in movies just like this one before .  assante is intelligent casting as the man that everyone fears , and baldwin's performance is adequate , but most of the rest of the cast jump into the tough guy persona so thoroughly that it's almost funny .  moresco , a theater guy and sometimes tv writer ( including the series falcone ) , obviously labored over this one as anyone might a first child , but the content is probably too personal .  as a result , the movie's style is heavy-handed , in need of a considerable amount of toning down .  nearly every time an action by the grown up gang recalls something they did as kids , moresco reminds us -- boy does he remind us .  with slow dissolves to the earlier scene , running in slow motion , complete with dialogue from the present , just in case we don't comprehend the link to the past .  moresco needs to either trust his audience's intelligence , or have more faith in his own presentation rather than beat us over the head with it .  his next project should have a little more personal distance , and a lot more subtlety .  if he actually gets that chance .  reviewed as part of our 2001 boston film festival coverage ( feature story coming soon ) . 
pos@ urban legend surprised me .  based on the last few films the genre has produced ( including but not exclusive to the likes of i know what you did last summer , disturbing behavior and the disappointing halloween : h20 ) , i was positive that i was in store for another mildly entertaining but silly and ultimately boring rehash of the scream phenomena .  thankfully , legend rose above it's soggy premise to become not only a hip , scary and stylish entertainment , but also what will probably become one of the best films of the year .  you're all familiar with the plot ; a bunch of overly horny teenagers get systematically slaughtered by a masked maniac who's identity is not revealed until the closing moments of the film when it turns out to be , you guessed it ; everybody's favorite veteran of the whodunit flicks . . . the  only person you didn't suspect !  however , just because legend doesn't really break any new ground as far as literary or even technical achievements go does not mean that it can't qualify as first-class entertainment .  it was , believe it or not , one of the funnest times i've had at the movies all year .  the thing is , i'm not really sure what made this particular stab ( pardon the pun ) at the genre seem so fresh and alive .  maybe it was the above-par performances by the movie's two leads ( jared leto and " cybil " actress alicia witt ) .  or , it could have been the on- target direction by jamie blanks .  more likely , though , it was because of the inspired premise .  i don't think i need to tell you that a killer hacking people up ala urban folklore is much more frightening than a killer fisherman .  urban legend begins with a sequence that reminded me of the classic scream opener , not so much in plotting as in attention to detail that makes for an absolutely chilling teaser for the rest of the film .  a pretty young coed is driving down a deserted road when ( gasp ! ) a gas problem ( hee-hee ) forces her to stop at an equally deserted gas station for a refill .  one problem , though .  would you want to stop at a station run by brad dourif ?  i thought not .  predictably , the attendant ends up coaxing her into the main building to sort out a problem with the credit card company .  it's odd , though , when you pick up a phone to realize that nobody's on the other line .  naturally , the potential victim escapes into her car and drives off .  and the when we least expect it . . . whack ! ! !  a decapitation .  it turns out that the creepy looking attendant was just trying to warn her about the maniac in the back seat of the car .  so who is it this time ?  the obvious candidate is the slightly off-kilter professor at the college the girl went to ( none other than freddy kruger himself , robert englund ) , who teaches a class on urban legends .  a-ha .  or could it be the fame-hungry local journalist ( leto ) looking for a meaty story to put on his resume ?  like all movies of this nature , one of the chief pleasures is trying to guess whodunit .  and it turns out to be , of course , the one you didn't suspect .  i'm not going to pretend urban legend is anything more than it is , but i must give credit where credit is due .  and this flick definitely deserves credit for being what not many other recent horror films have been . . . fun .   * complimentary movie ticket courtesy of valley cinemas in lodi , ca 
neg@  * this review contains spoilers * as with most of her films , director amy heckerling's latest , loser , seesaws between unpleasant and artificial , and is sometimes both at once .  when she tackles big issues , such as abortion in fast times at ridgemont high , it's impossible to tell whether she's being matter-of-fact or glib about them ( they carry an almost documentary starkness ) , but whatever the case , she continually refuses to comment politically .  such is the sitcom tendency of her work : to jeopardize the innocence of her characters and then hit the reset button .  this fear of drama soured me on fast times . . . , look who's talking , clueless , and now loser , in which ms . heckerling also demonstrates , for the first time , zero affinity for the milieu .  has anyone , for instance , ever met a girl in the stylistic vein of mena suvari's dora ?  attired in black thrift , her eye shadow smeared to racoon chic and her bangy red hair barely contained by girlish clips , she accepts the label of goth , but no self-respecting goth girl ever admitted to digging , as dora does , those geriatric rockers everclear , nor willingly went anywhere with a six-pack-wielding fratboy stranger .  the mechanics of loser's tired old introvert-boy-falls-for-extrovert-girl plot drive its protagonists into cultural non-specificity , so that they become even less than stereotypes .  they become walking wardrobes .  small-town transplant paul ( a strangely static jason biggs ) , our eponymous hero , always wears his woolly hunter's cap with flaps covering the ears , and beneath it rests a parted moptop that couldn't scream " shemp " ( the lame stooge ) wig louder .  he has three smug-looking roommates ( the one-dimensional trio is not supposed to be brothers , but they share similar facial features , including and especially mouths ) , and their fashion sense is incomprehensibly glam .  though they're not overtly transvestites , heckerling seems to be equating flamboyance with villainy ; how very cruising of her .   ( the dormies conspire to evict paul and regularly molest women they have drugged .  dora ignorantly downs one of their date rape potions .  unfortunately , either heckerling or the studio is too cowardly to admit if she was subsequently violated . )  when paul rescues dora from said narcotic scare , he learns that she is dating their unctuous european lit professor edward alcott ( superb greg kinnear ) .  although paul's already in love with dora by this point , as is bound to happen to losers when pretty girls address them by name , he gets altruistic and pretends the flowers he bought her are actually from alcott .  she's thrilled , but nevertheless spends a few days at paul's to recuperate ; the two bond over emergency kitten surgery and a broadway play ( " cabaret " ) , and just when paul's got in his head that she's starting to love him back in that non-friendly way , she decides to become alcott's live-in girlfriend .  cue precious hommage to the graduate , shots of paul drifting around berkeley--er . . .   ( aside : simon & garfunkel's " parsley , sage , rosemary & thyme " should never have been allowed in another motion picture . )  heckerling has a lot in common with nora " you've got mail " ephron , the only other prominent chick directing comedies today , in that neither has any use for strong-willed women .  men continue to trod on dora until the bitter end ( in the final scene , she gives paul a big smooch after he blurts out his feelings in what amounts to a creepy ultimatum ) , and dora ultimately shrugs off being drugged against her will--mere hours after paul hints to her that she was poisoned , she's cheerily redecorating his apartment .   ( heckerling is so laissez-faire about the issue in general that she reserves the comeuppance of the would-be rapists for jokey epilogue titles . )  goth veneer aside , there are an awful lot of girls out there who behave as erratically as dora , and enough angry young dude filmmakers to make movies about them .  heckerling misses her shot at having dora transform herself into a role model , and while such arcs may not be heckerling's social responsibility , it is a privilege i would have taken advantage of if i were in her shoes .   ( consider , too , that dora is the film's sole female principal . )  not that loser is worth contemplating this seriously--god knows heckerling didn't .  that is her hallmark .   ( --- for more first-run , dvd , and books-about-movies reviews , plus contests and the proverbial " more ! " ,  visit 'film freak central , ' ! http : //filmfreakcentral . net  --- ) 
pos@ the postman delivers but not first class  the postman a film review by michael redman copyright 1997 by michael redman  [warning : my opinion of this film is definitely in the minority of reviewers perhaps because it hits so many of my cinematic buttons : post-apocalypse stories , hope in a desperate situation , grassroots uprisings and kevin costner .  even worse , i thought that " waterworld " was watchable .  read the following with those particular grains of salt . ]  it's the year 2013 and things have fallen apart .  due to a world war in the late nineties , the resulting three-year winter and a devastating plague , life in the former united states has been reduced to isolated primitive fiefdoms .  although this is the future , it looks like a western .  as the film opens , kevin costner ( his character's name is never revealed ) is wandering the utah wastelands with only his mule bill for company .  giving extraordinarily bad shakespearean performances in exchange for food and lodging , costner is an outsider in a land of outsiders .  running into even worse luck , he is forcibly conscripted into the racially pure holnist army of general bethlehem ( will patton ) .  the rag-tag retro-futuristic cavalry is the descendent of militia groups and is even called the " clan "  after a brutal boot camp , he ( and you can see this coming a mile away ) escapes .  taking shelter in a wrecked postal truck , he liberates the uniform and mail bag from the skeleton in the cab who no longer has a use for either .  once he reaches oregon , land of beautiful women , bright youngsters and rock and roll ; he pretends to be a representative from the " restored congress of the united states of america " .  this scam gets him inside the walled towns where the promise of mail delivery renews optimism in the hearts of the inhabitants .  food and other opportunities come his way in the form of spirited abby ( olivia williams ) who wants him to father a child because her husband is sterile .  shortly her husband is killed by bethlehem and she and the postman ( as costner is referred to for the rest of the film ) become a reluctant item .  although the postman knows he's running a fraud , the concept of renewed communications sets the kids' imagination afire ( especially ford lincoln mercury ( larenz tate ) , his second-in-command ) and they form a new pony express dedicated to getting the mail through .  the revived postal service doubles as an army to fight the holnists' tyranny .  the postman has become a symbol for hope in a rube goldberg manner .  although the movie appeals to my sensibilities , there are so many things wrong with it that they can hardly be counted .  it's derivitive of costner's own " waterworld " and clint eastwood westerns .  there's little here that we haven't seen dozens of times before .  the film is often down-right corny .  a scene where the postman is on horseback and grabs a letter from the hands of a bright-eyed child is embarrassing in its slow-motion banality .  the film's final few minutes should have been left on the cutting room floor .  despite the film's excessive three hour length , several things are never explained .  what was the war about ?  how did civilization change so rapidly ?  everyone has horses : where did all they come from ?  the " law of eights " that bethlehem lives by seems to have its origins somewhere beyond the film , but where ?  are we to believe that the rest of the world is in the same shape and hasn't made their way west to help or conquer ?  there is some jumbled symbolism here that doesn't appear to make sense .  the tale is obviously saying that communication can defeat evil in much the same way that the internet has the potential to topple governments , but beyond that there are some oddities .  the evil army is called " holnists " which sounds coincidentally like the new age " holism " , but why ?  is it another coincidence that it takes place in 2013 , just one year after many ancient prophesies ( including the ending of the mayan calendar ) predict a new world for mankind ?  why is the general named " bethlehem " ?  there seems to be some reason for that , but what ?  sometimes the movie feels like a joke .  an army of postal workers armed with guns ?  considering the headlines of recent years , it takes a tremendous leap of faith to cheer for these guys .  it's even more difficult to accept those re-powering the federal government as the heroes .  given the current climate of the country and the distrust of big government , it's asking a lot for the audience to get behind the film's nationalism .  even with its numerous flaws , the movie all comes together , if only for those who have the same weaknesses that i have .  it's doubtful that " the postman " is going to find much of an audience , but a few of us are going to have a good time .  besides we're all awaiting the fall of civilization caused by the year 2000 millennium computer bug .   ( michael redman has written this column for over 22 years and would like to announce that the " michael redman " arrested near indianapolis last week for accepting an illicit package from federal express is , to the best of his knowledge , not him .  perhaps this similarly-named person should have used kevin costner's postal service . ) 
neg@  " return to horror high , " wants to be a couple different types of movies at once .  the film tells the story of a low-budget horror movie being filmed at the closed-down crippen high , a school where a group of serial murders took place five years before .  but what the cast and crew don't know is that a real killer , maybe the same one that was never apprehended , is going into action again .  on one level , " return to horror high " is a slasher movie , and it is at this level that it works the best on .  watching the film , which was made in 1987 , i couldn't help but take notice that the killer's costume was almost identital to that of the ghostface in , " scream , " and " scream 2 . "  on another level , the film wants to be a slapstick comedy , and there are many hints of this throughout .  unfortunately , most of these jokes fall flat .  and the last thing the film wants to be is a " behind-the-scenes " look at an exploitation film being made .  the only problem is that , while much of it is supposed to be from the movie itself being made , no cameras are shown filming it , thus making it far more confusing than it had to be .  and to top it all off , the " twist " ending makes very little to no sense whatsoever , and so we are basically left with feeling as if we wasted our time .  there are story developments that are beyond ludicrous , and plot holes you could drive a winnebago through .  if you see the film , or have seen it , you'll know what i mean .  the premise of " return to horror high , " is admittedly pretty crafty , and i liked the atmosphere of the school , which is where the whole thing takes place .  but director froehlich , judging from this movie , is an incompetent director , except for being able to film the seldom suspeneful scene .  well , come to think of it , there is only one scene that is actually scary , and it has to do with two actors being locked in a room as the killer tries to break in .  but other than that two-minute distraction , " return to horror high , " is certainly no great shake .  note : look for george clooney in a supporting role as one of the actors on the film .  and strangely enough , he is the first character to get the ax . . . literally . 
pos@ life is beautiful is a rare treat : a lighthearted comedy that tackles a very serious subject without committing the sins of being disrespectful , or , even worse , humorless .  it combines a charming romance with a dash of farce , stirs in a little poignancy , and ends up a very enjoyable movie .  it's an italian film , but don't let that discourage you .  subtitle-phobes will be missing a wonderful experience .  life is beautiful opens as a sweet romantic comedy , with the clownish , but good natured guido ( roberto benigni ) arriving in a rustic italian town to work as a waiter for his uncle .  the year is 1939 , and guido literally stumbles into the girl of his dreams , dora ( nicoletta braschi ) .  their romance seems to be picture perfect , with only one stumbling block : she's already engaged to another man .  can guido overcome the odds and win his girl ?  what do you think ?  however , five years later , things have taken a turn for the worse in italy .  the fascists have stepped up their race initiatives , which is bad news for the jewish guido and his new son giosue ( giorgio cantarini ) , who are rounded up and shipped off to a concentration camp .  unable to protect his boy in any other way , guido attempts to shield his young son from the horrors of the labor camp .  he pretends that everything is all an elaborate game , with points awarded for such tasks as hiding , being brave and being very very quiet .  as you can tell from the description , life is beautiful has two very different tones , but manages to excel at both of them .  as a romantic comedy , it is sweet and funny .  as a bittersweet tale of hope amid despair , it is touching .  roberto benigni's work here has been compared with some of the best of chaplin's , and it is easy to see why .  he is able to run the gamut of comic expression , from slapstick to farce , with a warm-hearted feeling that celebrates his downtrodden hero's " triumph of the underdog " spirit .  life is beautiful treads a thin line when it turns its attentions to the holocaust .  however , it is able to successfully navigate the minefield , without demeaning the gravity of the horrors involved , nor without losing its humorous edge that allows you to smile through the tears .  with life is beautiful , benigni has created a triumphant , but bittersweet comedy .  it's quite simply one of the most enjoyable times i've had at the movies this year . 
neg@ under any other circumstances , i would not be discussing the ending of a film to the extent that i will in this particular review .  however , in order to fully explain exactly how and why this movie is so awful , a minute dissection of the ending is necessary .  even though i will not reveal the details of the last scenes , do proceed at your own risk .  the movie opens ( quite poorly , i might add ) as child psychologist malcolm crowe ( bruce willis , looking like he was dragged out of his trailer at the wee hours of the morning to shoot each scene ) and his wife are intruded upon by one of malcolm's past patients .  distraught , the suicidal man ( a cameo by new kid on the block donnie wahlberg ) shoots malcolm and then turns the gun on himself .  cut to the " next fall " , as we find the good doctor quietly observing his latest case , a trouble young man named cole ( haley joel osment , one of the only child actors in a while i didn't want to bludgeoned over the head with a blunt instrument ) .  after about 45 minutes of seemingly unrelated freak occurrences , we learn that cole has " the sixth sense " , the gift of being able to communicate with the dead .  and this , as they say , is where the healing begins .  the sixth sense and its unexpected popularity is founded upon a twist ending that i knew going into the film ( one of roger ebert's colleges was kind enough to give it away on a recent segment of " siskel and ebert " ) .  although i was at first enraged that an established film critic could so callously ruin a film for thousands of patrons , i soon realized that this turn of events could in fact have been a blessing in disguise ; i've always been a sucker for surprise endings ( my favorite movie is the usual suspects ) and rarely dislike a film that sports one .  here , since i knew the major plot twist that was coming at the film's conclusion , the possibly of being bamboozled into loving a bad movie solely because of its ending ( something i've fallen victim to in the past ) was eliminated .  and indeed , my viewing of the sixth sense did prove to be quite an enlightening experiment .  stripped of the element of surprise , the film was put to the task of showing what it really had , instead of simply hiding behind a shocking conclusion .  after seeing its true colors , i came to the conclusion that the sixth sense is , despite what the many champions of the movie may say , void of any real power .  it's a neat concept , but not one that justifies being made into a feature-length movie .  in fact , the sixth sense relies so strongly on its finale that the rest of the film develops as a sort of prelude to the supposedly earth-shattering revelation that is yet to come .  and when the final moments do come , it's a huge letdown ; the end makes no sense at all .  it stupefied me with the heights of its ineptitude and is completely idiotic on a fundamental and very rare level .  i won't go into any details , but suffice to say that , as far as i can tell , it negates to rest of the movie to such an extent that anyone who buys it even for a second must be suffering from a very acute case of attention deficit disorder .  now , in all fairness , i cannot say for sure that i would have guessed the ending ( however stupid it may be ) had it not been revealed to me before hand .  however , i feel very confident that i , as well as anyone who had seen a few " twilight zone " episodes , would have seen it coming a mile away .  the fact that movie-goers nation wide are surprised by the ending still has me stumped .  ironically , to fully appreciate the best scene ( that of cole and malcolm attending a little girl's funeral ) , the viewer is required to be aware of a very rare psychological disorder called munchausen syndrome by proxy .  i wouldn't have even known about this mental disease if i hadn't , by pure dumb luck , caught " dateline nbc " the other week when they did a feature story on it .  despite being blessed with some really amazing cinematography and a brauva performance from osment ( where was this kid when casting calls were going out for the phantom menace ? ) , in the end , the sixth sense is too chalk-full of contradictions and just isn't plausible enough to warrant even a slight recommendation . 
pos@ lisa cholodenko's " high art , " is an intelligent , quiet drama .  its strongest quality , aside from the top-notch central performances , is the perceptive way in which the film , also written by cholodenko , observes its characters .  they are all flawed people , some more troubled than others , but they are not judged .  judging the characters in this picture would be a creative misstep on the filmmakers' parts , because no one , no matter how bad off they are , deserve to be negatively judged if they are involved in some serious problems that they cannot break free of .  syd ( radha mitchell ) , a 24-year-old woman living with her longtime boyfriend james ( gabriel mann ) , has recently been awarded an ideal job at the high-profile photography magazine , " frame . "  she very much enjoys where her career is headed , but is often not taken very seriously by her managers , who are always giving her petty jobs to do , when she knows she could be doing more important things .  one night , while taking a bath , syd notices a leak coming from the apartment above hers , so when she goes up there to inform them of it , she meets lucy beliner ( ally sheedy ) , a thin , worn-out , and unhappy woman , who lives with her drug-addicted german girlfriend , greta ( patricia clarkson ) , a pathetic former actress who is usually so out-of-it that she often is in and out of conciousness .  syd quickly strikes up a conversation with lucy , and discovers that she used to be an acclaimed photographer ten years before .  lucy claims she doesn't want to get back into the profession , but syd manages to convince the " frame " editors to do a piece on her work .  all the while , syd begins to grow deep feelings for lucy , even though she has never previously been attracted to a woman , and lucy starts a battle with her personal demons .   " high art , " is such an effective motion picture because it is never suger-coated or idealized , but instead an honest and convincing portrait of a handful of unhappy people whose lives are going nowhere , while syd's luck begins to rise .  the film in no way is about lesbianism , but about love , which was a refreshing change of pace from the usual stereotypical portraits of homosexuality .  as lucy and syd grow closer and closer together , we really do believe that they are falling in love with each other , even if the relationship might be doomed .  with this picture , ally sheedy's star has risen once again , thanks to her touching , nearly flawless portrtayal of lucy , a woman who , in the course of a decade , has found her life consumed almost entirely by drugs , which has taken away her once-blossoming career .  her characted really is tragic , and one particular scene involving lucy and her mother , in which lucy admits to her that she has a drug problem , and her mother matter-of-factly responds by saying she can't help her , is heartbreaking .  although not autobiographical , sheedy has had drug problems in her past , and i suspect she brought that knowledge of already being in lucy's footsteps to her role .  also very good is radha mitchell as syd , who previously starred in the slight 1997 australian comedy , " love and other catastrophes , " wh caught me by surprise with her performance .  easily being able to pass as christina ricci's older sister , mitchell obtains the same natural charisma that has made ricci so popular recently .  as accurate as almost every detail is in , " high art , " i wish the relationship had been more tightly written involving syd and james , who , played by gabriel mann , is left with a throwaway role .  by the time he finds out about syd and lucy , he disappears from the film , and i wish there had been another scene where they confronted each other .  this is a very minor fault , however , in a film that is full of riches .  although many of the characters are stuck in a hopeless pit of despair , syd and lucy are intelligent people who recognize their problems .  the character of dominique ( anh duong ) , the " frame " editor who decides to give syd a chance with her ideas , was also written to be far more mature than expected .  and the one sex scene in the film was beautifully and originally done .  for once , it did not invlove steaminess , or violent sexual activity , or gratuitous nudity , but focused on the actual characters , who love each other , and their insecurities involved in making the decision to actually have sex .   " high art , " which won the screenwriting award at the 1998 sundance film festival , marks the superior feature film debut of cholodenko , as well as sheedy's strongest , and best , role to date . 
neg@ warning : may contain slight mild spoilers .  rated : r for intense violence/gore , some strong sexuality and language .  starring : arnold schwarzeneggar , robin tunney , rod stieger , gabriel byrne .  running time : 132 minutes  we go into a movie theater , boom !  the lights go down , our hearts race , we go through ten minutes of preview and finally the movie we've been waiting to see for a long time comes on .  we sit there , watch in disbelief that this movie is as bad as it is .  why shouldn't i have know what i was getting myself into .  again like this past summers hit " stigmata " , " end of days " may be worse .  it's not like this is any kind of original idea , it just throws in some " rosemary's baby " , along with " the devil's advocate " a little " exorcist " and some " stigmata " here and there .  whala you have " end of days " a movie that is extremely disappointing and by the previews made it look terrific .  sadly but truly again like most recent films , all the good parts are in the trailers .  the plot which is very confusing at times is also very ludicrous and the movie is destined to be a hit in the first weekend , and flop in the next .  jericho cane ( arnold schwarzneggar in hit typical macho role ) is a cop who finds out that he is chosen to track down satan ( living in gabriel byrnes body ) and stop him from impregnating christine york ( robin tunney ) because if he does , and she gives birth all existence as we know it will cease to exist .  he has to do this before it turns into the year 2000 , and strangely he's trying to fight him 5 minutes before 2000 comes .  he seeks help from the catholic church and help from rod stieger ( in a terrific role ) and tries to save this girl leading to an ending that's satisfying , but turns into a typical action movie .  that's pretty much it on plot .  it does have the razzle and dazzle of a great action movie , and with the 100m dollar budget parts seem to show it , parts you have to wonder where all the money went .  as for arnie ?  good role , ok performance .  i think since he is getting a little older he is held back a lot of his stunts .  the thing that disappointed me was the fact that there was nothing to the film .  in the trailers it looks like a good scary , action film and ends up being a boring , long and preposterous drama that leads into something else that leaves us with questions .  gabriel byrnes ( who ironically played a priest in " stigmata " ) here plays satan and gives a good performance but again seems held back and not into his character .  two years back al pacino gave a terrific performance in the fun " the devil's advocate " and here it seems like the idea of him is in the character also .  robin tunney ( great performance as always ) plays satan's main person whom he wants to impregnate to carry his child .  of course rod stieger gives another great performance which really isn't nothing new .  the direction by peter hyams is at times a bit overblown , though not nearly as the visual style was in " stigmata " .  here we are given great camera work , and some great scenes that are terrifically directed but sadly just don't work in this movie .  the script written by andrew marlowe has a few witty lines , but again the movie is all style and no substance and by the ending finale climax i was ready to go home .  only a few things work here and those are a few of the performances , the writing and visual style , but the storyline and the finished product don't work as well .  the sad thing is that " end of days " had so many things going for it .  the plot could have been more organized , the action scenes could have been more brainy and less mind-numbing .  at times it seems like " armageddon " and started to get old and tiresome .  hollywood is running out of ideas bad , and like i've always said before needs new ones .  even with its 100m budget " end of days " is less than pleasing .  in fact the 100m dollar budget is at least 30m over , and easily could have had a 70m budget .  maybe i sound crazy , but i am really looking forward to the new exorcist film , and hope that they make it as good as the original .  we need to get new ideas and stop recycling old ones just to make money at the box-office .  we need to get more films like " the blair witch project " that could scare people to death , while people thinking well what exactly is scaring them and how do i know that it is in fact the blair witch .  overblown effects , stupid and thin plot-line , good performances , disappointing . . . . umm  yup those pretty much describe " end of days " . 
pos@  " a bug's life " may not be " toy story , " but it's more close than " antz " was .  i really liked " antz , " basically because , yes , it is clever and witty and intelligent ( and it has the temerity to take a chance and put woody allen in the lead , perhaps the year's most inspired casting ) , but there was , in fact , something missing from it , and i'm the first to admit that .  maybe it's that it never totally lets go and takes off into real innocent fun - it's too obsessed with its orwellian message to become totally engaging , and if it weren't for woody allen , it would have been just a really clever good-not-great flick .   " a bug's life " has a similar premise , and it also has disney to insure that it's g-rated and not totally over kids' heads like " antz " was ( not a bad thing , believe me ) , but what it also has is a tone that's completely innocent even when it's also remaining perpetually clever .   " antz " is still the more witty film , and i love it for it , and " a bug's life " is more for general consumption , but it's also more entertaining .  it broadens its horizons , and when it really moves from the ant colony , it really shows us a whole new world we've never seen before , and it's take on the evolution of bugs is a lot better than the one in " antz . "  it's also light and clever .  the visuals are , instead of earth tones , bright worldly colors , and still gives the amazing visual technology of " antz " at least a worthy contender .  the characters are also nicely realized - though watered-down for broad consumption , they still carry more wit than the contemporary disney animated films .  the lead character , flik ( voiced by dave foley ) , is nothing more than a slightly-less neurotic z from " antz , " but foley makes him nearly as engaging as allen made z . instead of gene hackman playing the villain , we get the much more menacing kevin spacey as the lead grasshopper , the nicely-titled hopper .  and for the romantic lead , we don't get spacey sharon stone , but intelligent and hard-to-get julia-louis dreyfuss , who doesn't even come around until the very final frames .  not that the plot's really any better than the one in " antz " - it's basically yet another redux of " the seven samurai , " with an ant colony under the control of giant grasshoppers forcing them to produce a product for them or else .  when flik , a bone fide inventor , creates a time-conserving apparatus that accidentally destroys the season's donation , he puts them all in risk , and is sent away so that he won't screw anything up with the pretense that he is searching for help to fight the grasshoppers .  he runs into a group of " warrirors " who are , unbeknownst to him , a group of carnival bugs , and they agree to help under similar false pretenses .  these bugs are an equally wonderful assortment to anything in " toy story " : foppish walking stick slim ( david hyde-pierce ) , german caterpillar heimlich ( joe ranft ) , quick-tempered and insecure male ladybug francis ( denis leary ) , pretentious praying mantis manny ( jonathan harris ) , his assistant butterfly hypsy ( madeliene kahn ) , spider rosie ( bonnie hunt ) , and two fleas , tuck and roll ( michael mcshane ) , who speak in undiscernable jibberish .  the writers lightly touch on each bug's place in bug society and the malleability thereof while making a wisecracks at everything they can , and blowing the audience away with wild visual treats .  grasshoppers jumping in unison seems like a menacing earthquake .  a small bird becomes an ominous mortal threat , whose usual mild-mannered squeal is a scream of death .  the bug city is a modern-day metropolis , complete with fireflies temping as traffic lights and a fly sitting on the curb , holding out a cup , with a sign lying next to him that says " kid tore off wings . "  and a rainstorm is like a giant flood , with each drop acting like a small bomb dropped at millions of miles per hour .  around this , the pixar animators stage several large set pieces , like a resuce mission halfway through that is as wild and entertaining as anything this year , and a wonderfully exciting action piece at the end , a chase scene at night through the labyrinthine branches of a small thicket .  meanwhile , each character gets the spotlight to be completely idisyncratic and interesting , something " antz " couldn't do , and by the end , over the end credits , " a bug's life " pulls it's final punch , out clever-ing " antz " with a series of incessantly hilarious faux-bloopers that come just at the right time , when those who leave immeadiately after the final frame of a film have left , and you can brag that you were one of the elite who stayed and got the full money's worth of entertainment .  still , it's no " toy story . "  that film , maybe above any animated film i've ever seen , encompassed almost true perfection in story , character , and wit .  it proved that it didn't need to brag about it's cutting edge technology to really soar ( it's the least visually striking of the three computer animated films thus far , but is still the most satisfying ) , and created a perfect world of idiosyncratic delights and innocent fun .  yet " a bug's life , " as well as " antz , " are still amazing films , and prove without doubt , that if you're gonna make a computer animated film , send it to the guys who created these three flicks , evne if they're not working under the same roof . 
neg@ it seems that i've stopped enjoying movies that should be fun to watch .  take payback , for example , a movie that most people seem to like .  however , it's horrible schlock , straight out of hollywood's vast talent for sucking creativity out of movies .  it was written and directed by a guy who should have done better ; however , maybe he did do better , after all , 30 percent of the movie isn't his own .  mel gibson , that hollywood zombie , decided he didn't like the ending and had another director reshoot it .  what a crock .  if you sign on to do a movie , then do it the way the script calls for .  why film a movie and then look at it later and say , - no , i changed my mind , i don't like the ending .  you're fired .  let's get someone else to do it .  - i suppose honor is dead in hollywood .  the end of the film is , of course , hollywoodized .  which is to say that it's happy and the guy you root for beats impossible odds to win his prize .  in this case , as is most victories in hollywood movies , gibson's prize is a blond and money .  i miss originality in film , i really do .  i think audiences are so starved for it that they'll flop down a lot of money in hopes that a movie will be original .  payback's tagline - get ready to root for the bad guy - promised an original idea , but it was far from the truth .  while gibson's character certainly broke the law , he was a character that had honor ( odd that gibson himself seems to have very little of it ) , wouldn't kill in front of children and protects his blond woman .  there's nothing bad about him - he's a hollywood character , a person who could never exist in real life .  and gibson knows it - he spends his time trying to act like a " bad guy " , and instead comes off as pretentious and arrogant .  the story involves gibson being double-crossed by his partner ( who is a real bad guy , which made me wish that we could root for him ) over $70 , 000 .  gibson recovers from multiple gunshots , is pissed ( naturally ) , and will do whatever it takes to get the exact amount of money back - no more , no less .  he makes a point of it that it's strictly 70 grand .  a real bad guy would have made his ex-partner pay 25% interest .  this idea is completely stretched out .  gibson ends up going after his partner and the chicago mafia that his partner is affiliated with .  what i didn't understand - this is the chicago mafia .  $70 , 000 is like spare change to them .  they'd probably just pay the guy rather than go through the trouble of dealing with him .  i think they'd respect a guy going through this much trouble for a simple $70 , 000 .  maybe i'm being too hard on the movie .  perhaps the filmmakers were just trying to make a simple popcorn movie .  i read roger ebert's review and he liked gibson in the role because he is a comic at heart playing a bad guy .  that's why we're allowed to root for him .  and it's true - gibson walks the movie as if he's smiling at a joke he just heard .  but he's wrong here .  i wanted a lee marvin or old-time clint eastwood or somebody who wasn't a comic , just an ass kicker .  as a side note , i've just checked the internet movie database and discovered that i am the 38th person to post a newsgroup review of payback .  after this many reviews , why would anyone want to read this ?  really , i don't care .  i'm just trying to gain membership into the on-line film critics society by posting as many reviews as i can . 
pos@ one can not observe a star trek movie and expect to see serious science fiction .  the purpose of star trek is to provide flashy , innocent fun .  sometimes the stories are compelling .  sometimes they're not .  but , with the exception of the first film in the series ( which provides little more than endless shots of amazed faces ) , i've never been bored by any of the enterprise's numerous missions .  star trek : insurrection is no exception .  the film has gotten some negative reviews ( a friend of mine actually thinks it's the worst in the series ) , but i'm not really sure why .  it's an exciting , often hilarious movie that engaged me and left me ready for the next star trek film .  some say it's a bit too light , and more of a long episode than a film .  others say the special effects are cheesy and that it's boring .  i simply enjoyed the film .  insurrection , which is the second film to feature strictly the next generation cast , introduces us to a race of people called the ba'ku ; the ba'ku are very old ( most of them are about three hundred years old ) , but they actually appear younger with age due to strange radiation in the rings of their planet .  of course , these peaceful people can't horde this fountain of youth all for themselves ? leave it up to their archenemies , the son'a , led by ru'afo ( f .  murray abraham ) , to mess everything up .  the son'a , who are horribly disfigured and rely on daily reconstructive surgery to be aesthetically acceptable , strike a deal with the federation to move the ba'ku elsewhere and exploit the secret to keep their race from dying .  that's when captain picard ( patrick stewart ) steps in : he realizes that moving the ba'ku would kill them ( it also helps that he falls in love with a ba'ku woman ( donna murphy ) ) .  so , with his trusty crew , picard defies the federation to keep the ba'ku in their natural habitat .  when dealing with a series with as much history as this , it's not entirely necessary to re-introduce your characters with each episode .  this is why i believe non-fans have a hard time getting into star trek ; in order to enjoy it , one has to understand how to approach it .  insurrection , however , does a surprisingly good job of us new aspects of the characters .  stewart is bold as always , a magnetic screen presence and perfectly capable of holding an entire film together .  jonathan frakes , who also directed , is funny as commander riker ; a subplot with data ( brent spiner ) discovering his lost childhood is fairly interesting ; and abraham makes a perfect star trek villain , overacting like crazy .  frakes showed similar aptitude for direction in first contact ; insurrection is an exciting film , with some really attractive special effects and a lot of good action .  this is apparently the first star trek film to utilize computer animation , and the result is very pleasing to the eye : particularly in the climactic scenes , in which the son'a employ a giant space ship to suck up the rings of the ba'ku planet , the special effects have a clean , impressively sharp look .  if i have any complaint about the film , it's that it tries to take a moral stance when it's not very appropriate to do so .  i don't think it's that big of a deal that the federation wanted to move 600 ba'ku in order to save the lives of thousands .  better yet , why couldn't they have co-existed ?  insurrection feels a little to light to spring these kinds of big moral questions on the audience .  with it's inherent camp factor , the star trek series doesn't seem well-equipped to deal with issues like this .  i prefer to just enjoy the spectacle . 
neg@ i had an epiphany today .  it occurred to me while i was watching " house on haunted hill . "  it is as follows : if a trailer makes the film it's advertising look like a trashy , stupid movie , well guess what ?  chances are , there * is * truth in advertising .  too bad i didn't trust my own instincts when something-or-the-other possessed me to see this movie .  i blame it on my sudden craving for a scare and my anticipation of " sleepy hollow . "  that and " dogma " started too late in the afternoon for my schedule .  an hour of " angel " or " buffy " is scarier than this doozy that tries to be scary and shtick but falls flat on its face .  i wish i'd seen it when it was halloween .  at least i would have been forgiving .  hey , tis the season .  the movie was scary ( albeit very confusing , dizzying , and nauseating ) at first , but soon the horror got repetitive and downright laughable because the film obviously wasn't going anywhere .  now i truly appreciate films like " scream , " " halloween , " or any old hitchcock film where the scariness stems from situations that are at least somewhat realistic .  that's what spooks people out , the fact that it could happen to them or someone they know .  there has to be a logical precedent for the situations they want to scare us with .  sure , utterly unpredictable is good , too , but that's different from utterly nonsensical .  hohh ( house on haunted hill ) , on the other hand .   .   .  well let's just say i about fell off my chair laughing when they oh-so-cleverly revealed that everyone who got invited to the party was related to the psycho doctors who died in the house a couple of decades ago .  riiiiight .  y'know , that just sends chills down my spine .  yeah .  just like i wet my pants when they told me the house is evil .  ooooooo .  hint : blood and guts only work a few times .  sooner or later people start to tell themselves that it's just ketchup and props and you've got to come up with something better than that .  there were just too many things in this movie that we've all seen before ; from the inevitable " plot developments " of strangers unwittingly trapped together ; strangers turning against each other ; the evil manifesting itself ; the dead coming back for a last scare .  each was more predictable than the last .  why didn't these fools just stay together in one place anyways ?  sheesh .  was i grossed out ?  yes .  did i get spooked a few times ?  yes .  but why ?  i get really disturbed when there is no why .  when there weren't random scares that were there for no other reason than for the visual effect ( which wasn't that good either , trust me ) and the scare , the film was filled with drab , laughable dialogue .  the characters were incredibly flat and cliched .  not to mention downright annoying .  you've got a bunch of people going nowhere in their lives ; of course they're dumb enough to go to a party some stranger invited them to provided they win a million dollars if they survive the night .  jeez , i thought no one fell for those " you may already be a winner " things anymore .  and of course , all three gals are babes .  i wonder how on earth the geoffrey rush of " shine " ended up in this movie .  keep that up , geoff , and you'll qualify for the next batman venture .  the only single person i enjoyed was chris kattan because , well , he just cracks me up .  and famke jansen ( sp ? )  because she reminds me of the delectable brosnan .  pierce brosnan ( hey , i willingly endured " dante's peak " three times for him : ) .  all right , i concede .  there were a couple of things i enjoyed .  that perverted little amusement park at the beginning .  i probably won't ride a rollercoaster for a while .  and the machine they used to drive geoffrey's character mad ( see , i don't even remember their names ) .  the machine , not that stupid fishtank with naked wimmin in it .  i kept waiting and waiting for that inevitable twist at the end of the movie .  it wouldn't have redeemed the film , but at least it would have made me feel better .  but no , they opted for the beautiful sunrise ending .  thank god they didn't add a kiss at the end or i would have puked .  god , there is no hope . 
pos@ you've heard all the hype .  you've seen all their faces - natalie portman ( the professional ) as queen amidala , liam neeson ( schindler's list ) as qui-gon jinn , ewan mcgregor ( trainspotting ) as obi-wan kenobi , and jake lloyd ( jingle all the way ) as young anakin skywalker .  if you've read any reviews , you've also probably heard that this movie fails to live up to the magic and humanity of the first trilogy .  you also may have heard that this one's too kiddie-friendly , and doesn't have enough content for adults .  believe the hype .  the effects are stunning , the digitalized creatures are amazingly realistic , the lightsaber duels are amazing , and queen amidala's sumptuous robes are fit to be worn by queen elizabeth .  but there's something missing here , and it isn't budget or effects - it's everything money * can't * buy .  the actors struggle as best they can to flesh out broad-stroked and flat characters .  the most successful at this is liam neeson who , as qui-gon jinn , a jedi master to young obi-wan kenobi , has quiet dignity and a wise , commanding presence .  he is the anchor to this movie , as he is the one character who george lucas apparently spent some time fleshing out .  portman's queen amidala and mcgregor's obi-wan kenobi don't fare nearly so well .  amidala , the future mother of luke and leia and the queen of a peaceful planet being invaded by the trade federation ( ? ! ? ) , comes off as stoic , stilted and caricatured ( it appears as though she was a vulcan geisha in a former life ) .  and obi-wan , although mcgregor makes him very endearing , has so little screen time that he's nothing but a robin to qui-gon jinn's batman .  however , mcgregor does struggle manfully to infuse this surprisingly small supporting role with a spark of genuine insight and humanity , and he does a good job .  he also absolutely nails alec guiness' ( obi-wan in episode 4 - 6 ) scottish accent , and that really makes his presence in the film more profound than it might have been otherwise .  in fact , lucas seems to bank on that preexisting knowledge quite a bit , and that's one of the problems with this film .  i would never call myself a " star wars " fan - especially not considering what it means to be a fanatic these days - but i've always enjoyed the films along with everyone else in america .  however , if you are the one person in america who * hasn't * seen the films at all or even recently , or who doesn't bother to brush-up on the names of obscure characters , you may be hopelessly lost .  for example , one of the film's main ( nefarious ) characters is senator palpatine .  for those of you not recently steeped in " star wars " trivia , emperor palpatine is that scary hooded apparition who was darth vader's master in " return of the jedi " and " empire strikes back . "  so , obviously , his appearance in " phantom menace " is meant to stir some echoes of his later role in the series , thus making his role here more meaningful .  a lot of the movie is like that .  r2-d2 and c-3po make token appearances , and it's obvious that lucas is banking on the audience's pre-existing fondness for them . . .  because he doesn't do much to add to it in any way .  same goes for jabba the hutt , who doesn't look as much mean here as he does corpulent and lazy .  even * planets * make foreshadowing guest appearances in this film - tatooine ( the desert world where luke grew up ) , coruscant ( the cloud city from " empire strikes back " ) , and alderaan ( leia's home planet - which we never actually see - that gets blown up in " star wars " ) show up or are mentioned briefly in passing .  what's the result of tying so many plot points and characters to future films ?  the answer is that this one seems surprisingly empty .  there's no meat - no substance - that makes you want to love the characters as they are , not as they will be .  another problem is that there are actually * too many * alien characters in the film .  i was distracted by the fact that two of the main evil characters - strange looking aliens who looked like gila monsters - had mouths that barely moved , making them look more like muppets than actual characters .  and jar jar binks , a silly roger rabbitish amphibious character , is intended as comic relief , but what he really becomes is annoying - and fast .  unlike chewbacca and c-3po , who got their humanity ( if you'll pardon the expression ) from their interactions with the human characters , jar jar is often left to interact mostly with others of his kind , at times making the movie seem like nothing more than a very expensive " teenage mutant ninja turtles . "  furthermore , the dialogue is often stilted and corny , and sometimes downright infantile , thereby rendering some characters into nothing more than bystanders to the plot .  oddly , this isn't just * my * judgment - lucas has said that he designed this film for kids .  well , he's done a good job .  the hero of this film , of course , is young anakin , but it was very hard for me to feel any kinship or identify with an eight-year-old boy .  that's not jake lloyd's fault , though - he does a good job of being a cute kid , which is apparently all lucas asked of him .  that's another mistake , of course , because the cute tyke becomes darth vader .  warning : spoilers ahead ! ! ! !  in my opinion , there was not nearly enough foreshadowing of anakin's future evil in the film .  the boy is all blond flowing hair and rosy cheeks , and there's nothing more than a spark of aggression in him throughout the entire movie .  he has a doting mother ( pernilla august , making her first english- language film ) and is a slave to a gross flying gnome on tatooine .  but the only indication the audience gets that this kid isn't all hearts and roses is yoda's hesitation in allowing him to train as a jedi under qui-gon jinn .  his explanation ?   " his future is clouded . "   ( warning : major spoiler ahead .  enter at your own risk . )  of course , the noble qui-gon dies at the hand of darth maul , a scary-looking sith lord who excels at the jedi arts , but has turned to the dark side .  this dude has maybe two lines in the entire movie , but he establishes his presence through his amazing moves with his double-sided lightsaber , and his scary facial makeup .  because qui-gon never gets a chance to train the young anakin in the ways of the force , obi-wan , qui-gon's young padawan apprentice ( one level below knightdom ) , must take over the training himself .  so , at the end of the movie , we end where the saga actually begins - with obi-wan kenobi and his young apprentice , anakin " darth vader " skywalker .  did this story need to be told ?  i would say no .  but is it a worthwhile movie to see ?  absolutely .  if you don't enter the theater with jedi-size expectations , and you simply want to be treated to an enjoyable visual spectacle , then this is your movie .  the tatooine pod races are a triumph of effects and computer animation .  the digitalized backgrounds on some of the planets are an astonishing sight .  and yoda and young obi-wan are worth seeing for their origins in a simpler , happier time .  above all , this is a fun movie .  not deep , not meaningful , and not profound .  but fun .  maybe next time , lucas will hire lawrence kasdan to co-write the script , and the guy who directed " empire " will direct .  because if lucas does the next one himself , it will be lacking the one thing it needs the most - potential .   : ) 
neg@ to put it bluntly , ed wood would have been proud of this .  a totally ridiculous plot is encompassed with bad humor , hokey drama , zero logic and a crap screenplay .  also , a beautifully anti-climactic ending .  not to say it didn't look intriguing when i saw the previews .  so much for truth in advertising .  roland emmerich , who's later " independence day " would look like " the 400 blows " compared to this , co-writed and directed this inane sci-fi film which uses the cliche of there being some connection between eqypt and aliens .  in a useless opening sequence , men find a stone in 1914 with hieroglyphics on it .  it wouldn't be till present day ( '94 ) till they would actually figure it out .  they're decipherer ?  a slightly-neurotic scientist ( nice twist ) , dr . dan jackson ( james spader , doing his best outside of erotic thrillers and some indy fare ) who's life sucks so much that people walk out of his lectures after the third word .  why do they use him to decipher what no one else could ?  so there is a hokey ending !  duh !  he figures it out in about a minute .  yea .  and then they get a suicidal colonel or something , " jack " o'neill ( kurt russel , with his wyat earp locks in the beginning then a flat-top that would make howie long snap into a fetal position ) .  why a suicidal colonel ?  for the ending !  you'll get the hang of this .  they open the stargate , a bunch of them go through it with a bomb to blow it up if they find anything bad .  after an overdone special effects thing , they're . . . inside a goddam pyramid .  so they went to egypt , right ?  wrong .  they're on another planet that was filmed in egypt .  they discover a cilvilization ruled by ra , the sun god ( the androginous jaye davidson , with a voice modifier to make him sound like barry white with asthma ) , and there are fights , explosions and a kiss between two people .  yea .  also melodrama , stupidity , hokey scenes and a bizarre language .  an anti-climactic ending ends with stupid lines ( " say hello to king tut , asswhole ! "  - the quintessential line , lemme tell ya ) and some convenient pesudo-pseudo-pseudo-character development .  by the end , you just wanna go home and watch , i don't know , the " outer limits " or something .  the script's terrible .  the special effects are okay , but nothing great .  the story's so weak that it's almost opaque .  the whole experience just isn't worth it unless you're so bored that you'd consider watching a " full house " marathon . . . or  this .  i'd pick this , obviously , but still , it's just not fun at all .  and i can't wait for it to premier on mst3k . 
pos@ go's is a gloriously slick hip machine .  director liman ( who also photographed go ) and screenwriter august celebrate the drug/rave scene in l . a . , preferring to take ( comedic ) snapshots of troubled youth rather than critique them .  after more than ninety minutes of pill-popping , tantric sex , car chases , and attempted murder , go even has a happy ending .  this is the sort of film that gives members of the dove foundation splitting headaches ; as go wound down , i anticipated an anti-pill-popping-casual-tantric-sex-car-chase-attempted-murder sermon that ( blessedly ) didn't arrive .  a la tarantino's pulp fiction , go is comprised of three separate but related stories .  the basics are as follows : ronna ( polley ) is a bitter grocery store clerk facing eviction who turns to drug dealing for extra dough .  her co-worker , simon ( the improbably named askew ) , is a clubber from britain ecstatic about his first trip to vegas .  zack ( mohr ) and adam ( wolf ) are soap opera stars escaping a career-threatening conviction by assisting a peculiar cop ( fichtner ) in a drug bust .  perhaps because the innovative structure of tarantino's non-linear masterwork is by now old hat , the id-fueled go delighted me but rarely surprised me ( with the exception of that mind-reading cat ! ) ;  pulp fiction zigzagged down roads unforeseen , but we see go's wheels turning from its first flash frame to the last .  torontonian polley ( of the sweet hereafter ) refused to do publicity for this picture on the basis that she was " not pleased with " her turn as the ill-fated cashier .  in go , she delivers , hands-down , her best performance to date .  here's an ( overrated ) actress who agreed to appear on the poster , but not support her team at the junket or in interviews ; this sort of arrogance is commonplace for ms . polley , as anyone who has read of her political agenda in the canadian press will tell you .  if she doesn't want to be the ingenue of the moment , she should have said " no , " not go .  but i digress .  go is a fun film , so chipperly depraved one can't help but turn off his moral judgment for its duration and enjoy the ride .  in that sense , it's a departure from liman's last film , swingers , which at least lectured against self-absorption in the form of vince vaughan's trent and his subtle comeuppance in the story's clever epilogue ( which has been aped by mcdonald's for their latest commercial ) .  i wish i cared more about go's characters : like the techno music they listen to , the bands of anarchists on display here are at once absorbing and vacuous .  when the lights came up and stung my eyes , it was difficult to recall what about it entertained me .  yet entertain me it did .  go is light and frothy , featuring compelling if not endearing work by polley , timothy olyphant ( scream 2 ) , and especially fichtner , whose homoerotic behavior is milked for effective laughs .  fichtner is a character actor best known for playing backstabbers ( in heat , armageddon , and others ) ; his previously untapped comic abilities shine in go .  unlike much of the film , fichtner is unpredictable . 
neg@ around the end of 1998 , a japanese cartoon came to the usa television , and really wasn't that big .  in fact not many people even knew what pokemon was , but in 1999 it hit big with kids and adults alike , and became one of the biggest franchises and merchandise seller of all time .  in fact it even spawned a big screen adventure pokemon : the first movie which for what it was , wasn't all that bad .  it grossed $31 million in its opening weekend , and went on to make almost $90 million .  fans thought it was great and now is a second movie in the pokemon craze , " pokemon : the movie 2000 " which is far inferior to the original animated movie .  first up is the plot , which there really isn't much of , in fact the plot what there is : a bad guy trying to destroy the ancient never before seen pokemon , lugia , is about it , except the fact that ash kethcum the worlds best pokemon trainer must try and stop him before he destroys this one pokemon forever .  well there you go , of course ash is followed by his friends misty , brock , gary and his pokemon friends , pikachu , squirtle , charizard , the usual .  even though the first movie wasn't a great film , it was definately an enjoyable well-made movie with an actual thin storyline .  this new movie however is nothing but garbage , there is nothing good to it storywise , and its only good thing comes from some plush animation and colors .  compared to the first film , this movie is awfully bland , from its opening titles , to the end titles it tries its best to work , but fails miserably at every corner .  the characters are 1-dimensional , the story thin as chicken broth , and the writing very lame .  even the so called action scenes are extremely lame , and falls before it even gets a chance to go .  the voices even aren't that good and almost feels like the stars don't want to be there , like they can tell that this is an extremel bad movie .  which it certainly is .  the film has one thing going for it and that is the animation , although not up to disney standards , it is still very good with some interesting cgi's and very colorful animation , the colors jump out at you very fast , and seem very nicely put on film .  why a film this bad got such a good treatment with its animation is still a question to be answered , hopefully pokemon 3 next year will be much better than this trash .  for now watch the first one .  its much much better . 
pos@  " the celebration " is one of an elite kind of films that is completely absorbant .  you know , where you sit down to watch it , and no matter what you've heard about it before , you just can't help but be totally drawn into its story and shocked by every single turn that occurs .  i prefer films like these because these are what the best kind of films are like .  i don't really feel there are to be any real " rules " for cinema ; a film can do anything , as long as it makes it work .  but i do ask that all films have one thing in common : they create experiences .  when i watch a film , no matter what kind of film it is , i want to be able to take certain memories along with me .   " the celebration " is great because it's chock full of those .  it creates a world so completely realistic that everything that occurs is as memorable as the little instances of life that catch your attention and stay with you for the rest of your life .  and then it makes things just a tad bit farscial , just to make sure you're paying attention , which you are because what transpires is just so goddam interesting that if you were to ever feel bored , then you're of your attention span needs a bit of a tuning-up .  the story takes place at the extravagant home of an aging patriarch ( henning mortizen ) , who has just turned 60 and is having a party thrown for him .  all his friends and family turn up , and for the first half hour , we get introduced to everyone , simplistically and realistically ( no aggravatingly condescending posing for the camera deals here ) .  the eldest son , christian ( ulrich thomsen , looking a bit like a young malcolm mcdowell ) , is the first to be seen in the film , walking to his father's home .  his brother , michael ( thomas bo larsen ) , drives by , pulls over , greets him , then kicks his family out of the car , forcing them to walk to the estate , just so christian can be comfortable .  we then meet helene ( paprika steen ) , their sister , a woman who always seems to be stressed-out , who invites the driver of her car ( gbatokai dakinah ) , an american , to to come join her at the party she's going to .  once they're all there and settled in , the party begins , and as custom , the eldest son has to make a speech to his dad , so christian stands up , at the head of the table , and reveals the film's punchline : his father raped all his children at a young age .  but since this is a family/friends affair , his confession becomes more detested than the supposed truth , and is simply brushed off despite his efforts , and what transpires is sorta like jerry springer crossed with jean renoir , and it's all terribly interesting to watch .  twists occur , and soon the film has taken on a nearly-farsical nature , but still seems realistic because the people involved really feel like they could reach such ends .  the most notorious thing about this film , which has been getting the most notice , though , is that the director , thomas vinterberg has shot it in a completely awkward fashion .  as a member of the danish filmmakers clan , dogme 95 , a group that has vowed to oppose " the auteur concept , make-up , illusions , and dramaturgical predictability " so that they may " purge film so that once again the inner lives of the characters justify the plot . "  i have not seen " breaking the waves , " the other notable film by a member of this group ( lars von trier , to be exact ) , but " the celebration " works exquisitely in this department .  it feels like reality , like you're actually watching real people and not actors , and as a major pointer , has been shot on video .  as a result , it looks more like the home movies you never dare shot of your family than an actual film , but always wanted to .  we see key moments in people's lives that they wouldn't dare show to the world , and it captures the farscial comedy of life so accurately and acutely that this style , as ironically-showmanship as it really is , works perfectly for the nature of the film .  the key , though , to this film , and the reason it's not just a cool danish import , is because this film is not about revealing the truth as much as it is about the way people react to such an explosive truth .  throughout the film , we see a completely realized debate over the truth and the effects it has on the lives of those who have learned to live with lies , a debate so three-dimensional that it could easily blow oliver stone and his the-truth-at-all-costs reasoning out of the water .  of course it was not right for the father to rape his children , and of course , they couldn't have fought back then , and of course this has created scarring suppression inside them .  and yes , it's thearapeutic for one to release the truth years later , when they know it could easily destroy the one who emotionally destroyed them earlier .  but then again , the father , after all , is not a totally bad guy , and we can see the emotional complications that arise thanks to a performance by mortizen which is just so great and touching that while we do believe that he could have raped his children years earlier , we also see a man who has also learned to live with what he's done , and deep down , feels true guilt that is only now beginning to surface .  the final scene , involving mortizen and everyone else , is utterly devastating , thanks to him and thomsen , whose performance is utterly flawless and equally emotionally complex .  everyone else is flawless as well - the actors never seem to be stepping into the shoes of their characters as much as they do walking comfortably in them .  the actors or writers have not made the mistake to judge these characters in the slightest : there are no whites or blacks but instead all grays , exactly like life .  as such , " the celebration " may be the one truly bizarro film of the year : a work of art so eerily close to reality that it's utterly disturbing and utterly fascinating . 
neg@ i didn't come into city of angels expecting greatness .  i've never seen wim wenders' wings of desire , the classic movie upon which city is loosely based .  then again , i have seen enough stories which are based upon a similar plot device , with the little mermaid ( both the disney version and the original folktale ) being among them , that i had some high expectations about the possible power such a story of impossible love can hold .  unfortunately , city of angels ended up fulfilling few of them .  the plot , for those that couldn't tell from the previews , revolves around the angel seth , played with an almost creepy intensity by nicolas cage , who , in the midst of his angelic duties , falls in love with a heart surgeon named maggie ( meg ryan in her most endearing performance since when harry met sally ) .  of course , his being an angel prevents him from doing much about his love except appearing at random times to talk to her , watch her buy groceries , only to disappear in the blink of an eye .  their love must remain unrequited unless seth decides to make the ultimate sacrifice and become human .  using this framework as a jumping-off point , the movie attempts to veer through some heavy philosophical ruminations on the nature of desire , the joys of being human , and the definition of perfection .  the first half of the movie succeeds on most points .  cage excellently plays the eminently difficult role of an angel who doesn't know feelings so can't really express , preventing the character of seth from getting boring despite his limited repertoire of intent looks and hang-dog expressions .  unfortunately , cage takes the intensity too far sometimes , and then seth comes across as more creepy than sensitive .  as maggie , ryan manages to be convincing as a heart surgeon who has trouble coming to terms with her having lost a patient on the operating table despite having done everything right .  her beauty , unlike her unbearable cuteness in french kiss , is mature , intelligent , and winning .  likewise , some interesting ideas float around at the beginning of the film .  when the camera pans through traffic jams and libraries and we get to hear the thoughts of the random people who flash across the screen , the audience experiences a little of what it must be like to be an angel .  the beautiful camera work , shooting down onto the hectic world of los angeles from the improbable perches of the angels , also gives us a sense of the unique wonder angels feel .  the film begins to lose its way , though , when the focus tightens more and more on seth and maggie .  the grand , angelic perspective gets lost , except for some idly tossed lines about the incredible beauty of the world through an angel's eyes .  the movie devolves into an examination of how seth can't feel the world or , more importantly , he can't feel maggie : he can't smell her hair , feel her touch , or taste the pears she eats .  this change in focus attempts to capture the audience in seth's intense longing , but in doing so , the conflict disappears .  if he wants maggie so badly , then why doesn't her just make the leap and become human ?  after all , what's so great about being an angel ?  sure , you get to sit on marlboro signs , but what's that compared to getting to be with meg ryan ?  and from there , once the yearning has been established and the romantic denouement must occur , it's all downhill .  the philosophy becomes heavy-handed , the dialogue pedestrian when it tries to be deep , and the plot twists simply attempt to yank a few more tears into the audience's hankie .  it's the last thirty minutes of the movie , then , that wrecks the film .  i feel like the writer , by pulling out all the melodramatic stops , has robbed me of what could have been a genuinely powerful movie experience on both the romantic and the philosophical level .  i came out feeling robbed , seeing so much possibility in a film becoming nothing .  i could go on longer , but i don't want to " ruin " the end by revealing any of the cheap plot devices the film relies on .  city of angels , then , is a paradox .  it's a well-acted ( particularly look for dennis franz cutting against type-casting as a happy-go-lucky fallen angel ) , well-filmed , and based on a wonderful idea .  all these possibilities , though , are what make the film so unredeemable when the closing credits come up . 
pos@ ralph fiennes is carving out a nice niche for himself in the genre of period piece romances .  for his followup to the academy-beloved the english patient , he has once again turned to a love story , this time directed by accomplished australian film maker gillian armstrong ( little women ) .  despite some obvious overplotting , oscar and lucinda is a mostly effective and often affecting motion picture that touches our hearts while daring our minds to balk at its implausible coincidences .  the film opens in the mid-1800s , with parallel storylines in new south wales , australia and devon , england .  as the helpful narrative voice of geoffrey rush informs us , lucinda leplastrier ( cate blanchett ) is a headstrong young woman being raised in the australian outback .  meanwhile , half the world away , oscar hopkins ( fiennes ) has broken with his puritanical father over religious issues , and has gone away to school to study to be an anglican priest .  lucinda is fascinated with glass ; oscar is obsessed with theology .  lucinda is rich ; oscar is poor .  lucinda is forward and self-assured ; oscar is timid and uncertain of himself .  yet one characteristic unites these two diverse individuals -- the compulsion to gamble , whether it's on horses , dogs , cards , or the flip of a coin .  and fate has decreed that they will one day meet .  that day doesn't occur until 45 minutes into the film , when oscar boards a ship bound for sidney , australia , where he hopes to change his life and minister to anyone in need of his help .  another of the passengers is lucinda , who is returning from england where she was shopping for machinery to equip her newly-acquired glassworks factory .  at first , their relationship is that of a reverend and a confessor , but it doesn't take long for both of them to recognize a kindred spirit in the other .  a friendship is born , and , once they reach australia , it develops into something more potent .  but oscar is uncertain of lucinda's affection , and feels he must do something to prove himself worthy of her .  oscar and lucinda isn't beyond a little manipulation to get the desired emotional response , and there are times when the storyline curves in preposterous directions .  on more than one occasion , it's apparent that events are occurring specifically to funnel the characters into a position where there is only one possible route .  coincidence is a crucial plot device ; without it , this movie can't go anywhere .  the voiceover narration ( never one of my favorite techniques ) is too verbose and breaks into the story at undesirable moments .   ( however , without it , the final twist , which i will not reveal , would not be as poignant . )  yet , despite these quibbles , i enjoyed oscar and lucinda .  storyline faults pale in the light of two such finely-realized characters .  thematically , the film is also strong .  the unifying motif -- that everything in life is a gamble -- is successfully delineated .  oscar and lucinda don't just wager their money , they bet their hearts , minds , and souls .  a card game they engage in shortly after they first meet could easily be considered a form of emotional " strip poker " where defenses are peeled away to reveal their shared , secret passion .  oscar does not see gambling as a vice .  in fact , he believes that the greatest chance one takes in life is betting one's immortal soul on the truth of a religious faith .  ralph fiennes , who normally plays strong , confident men , is very much at home as the fumbling , insecure oscar .  the actor brings a variety of nervous tics to the part , all of which subtly add to a vague sense of discomfort whenever oscar is on-screen .  as good as fiennes is , however , he is eclipsed by cate blanchett .  the actress , who appeared earlier this year as one of the leads in bruce beresford's paradise road , is mesmerizing as lucinda .  she gives this liberated woman her flash , and feeds the chemistry between the two lead characters so that it sparkles rather than fizzles .  effective support is provided by ciaran hinds ( the male lead in jane austen's persuasion ) as lucinda's close friend , tom wilkinson ( the full monty ) as oscar's mentor , and clive russell as a self-serving adventurer .  there's a real magic in the way armstrong develops the story , keeping things moving in unexpected directions without lingering too long on any one moment or sequence .   ( in fact , i wish she had devoted a little more time to the luminous middle act , which has oscar and lucinda together . )  with the skill of a consummate storyteller , she weaves romance , friendship , passion , humor , and tragedy together into a complete package .  the characters , with all of their human foibles and neuroses , are wonderfully developed by fiennes and blanchett .  so who cares if the storyline is a little ripe and unwieldy ?  oscar and lucinda still offers abundant pleasures to reward the viewer . 
neg@ this was the last carry on movie ( if you discount 'carry on columbus' as a carry on movie ) and was made by a new production company .  based in central london , this movie is about the attempts by emmanuelle prevert ( suzanne danielle ) to bed her husband emile the french ambassador ( kenneth williams ) .  when he seems unwilling , she is given his permission to bed anyone she likes , such as the prime minister and the u . s . ambassador .  her antics get her into trouble and the british press spread these rumours all over their front pages .  she is invited to talk on television to set the record straight but only confirms the rumours instead .  meanwhile , theodore valentine ( larry dann ) is in love with emmannuelle after a chance encounter in the toilet of the concorde and is determined to marry her .  however , she is only interested in restoring her husband's ardour which seems a little difficult after emile's accident with a church spire !  this film is the second worst carry on movie , the worst being 'carry on england' .  it is embarassing to see some of the remaining regulars struggle through this diabolical script by lance peters and try to pull off some of the crude and tasteless jokes that he has written .  newcomers suzanne danielle and beryl reid ( as mrs . valentine ) are mildly funny , but larry dann as theodore is excruciatingly bad .  kenneth williams only appears in a few scenes and his lacklustre performance is warranted , given the script .  the small parts for jack douglas as lyons the butler , joan sims as mrs . dangle , kenneth connor as leyland the chauffeur , and peter butterworth as richmond , are worthless and embarassing .  in fact , all four parts are surplus to requirements .  however , the only humourous scene in the film is when the four of them and emmannuelle talk about their most amourous escapades .  an awful script , a terrible collection of jokes , very poor production values ( especially the scene where emmannuelle takes her clothes off at st . james palace ) , a ludicrous and cringeworthy musical score , and a non-existent plot or storyline .  its just a succession of awful set pieces about who emmannuelle will bed next !  jack douglas is not so annoying but is more boring , joan sims and peter butterworth are wasted , and kenneth connor and kenneth williams put in some poor performances as leyland and emile .  a complete waste of time , this movie was trying to catch up with the new sexually permissive seventies .  it was a certificate 15 film but by 1978 , there was little interest in this kind of film and it flopped at the box office and was only given its premiere on uk terrestrial television in april 1998 !  avoid at all costs ! 
pos@ i can hear the question already .  what on earth do these two movies have in common ?  to most people , not a lot , except that both are by renowned directors .  as i saw them , however , both movies have flawed romantic scripts wrapped in distinctive packaging of lavish visuals musical numbers .  but oh , how differently the packages affect their films .  while " everyone's " production numbers make an otherwise ordinary woody tale something special , jane campion's imaginative visuals only serve to emphasize how pompous and uninvolving laura jones' script is .  i left " everyone says i love you " not remembering a lot about who loved whom , but its infectious happiness put a grin on my face .  i left " the portrait of a lady " not remembering a lot about who loved whom , and i could have cared less .   " everyone " features nothing allen hasn't done before storywise .  woody is again desperately in love with a beautiful woman ( roberts ) , and against the odds they manage to click for awhile before allen is left wondering what went wrong--again .  similar situations happen to his family and friends .  some of the more outlandish comedy scenes even hark back to his " early , funny " films .  the scenes between tim roth and drew barrymore could have come out of " take the money and run , " his directorial debut .  however , nothing allen has ever done prepared me for this one-of-a-kind display of sheer good spirits .  in fact , in this movie , the feeling itself is what's most important .  yes , the movie would have been better--among his very best , i think--if it had a meatier story .  but what it lacks in substance it makes up for in feeling .  and what better way to express feeling than through music ?  love is often best expressed in a song , and the numbers the cast break into here cut straight to the heart .  some are a tad too goofy , such as the number where a lot of ghosts prance around in a funeral parlor , but i admired allen for even putting them in there .  it also helps that as usual , allen has a top-flight cast working with him .  their singing voices range from quite good ( goldie hawn ) to not quite good ( allen ) to literally unlistenable ( barrymore , whose real voice was dubbed by a professional ) .  but while their vocal abilities differ , all the actors do a great job of putting joy up there on the screen , and making it rub off on the audience .  granted , some people will simply never accept characters singing in movies , but for those attuned to it , this film should work wonders .  jane campion , too , has a top-flight cast working for her in " portrait of a lady , " too , but even their considerable skills can do nothing to keep the film from being a stilted , virtually lifeless mess , albeit a visually interesting one .  campion and her cinematographer stuart dryburgh come up with a great variety of eye-filling images that linger in the mind .  unfortunately , what didn't linger in the mind for me was the story the visuals were supposed to be reflecting .  i remember very well shots of a train with its light beaming and shots of men vanishing around nicole kidman , but i can remember very little of what happened between all these people .  even worse , i don't find myself feeling bad that i've forgotten .  the problem , i think , lies not with the cast , which seemed to be trying very hard for the material .  it was the script that couldn't convince me to care about anyone .  the characters were putting out all kinds of emotion , but i found no reason to connect with any of them .  i understood that the story was about cold , emotionally vacant characters , but for me to care about them , i have to identify with them somehow and want them to inject feeling into their lives .  jones' script never simply gave me that opportunity .  in the end , it almost seemed as if campion was trying to inject some life of her own into the proceedings with her visual flourishes .  unfortunately , as she kept painting these dazzling pictures , they only served to push me further away from the material and remind me that there was no connection between me and the film .  in the end , the movie's one strength ended up hurting it .  so here we have two films with pretty uninteresting plots , and yet i was able to truly enjoy one of them .  why ?  with both films , my head cared about neither story , but only " everyone says i love you " was able to make my heart sing . 
neg@ while watching loser , it occurred to me that amy heckerling's true genius as a film-maker is casting .  in fast times at ridgemont high , she gave us sean penn's jeff spicoli ; in look who's talking , she turned bruce willis into a wise-cracking baby and provided john travolta with is first career revival ; in clueless , she found a star vehicle for the adorableness that is ( or was ) alicia silverstone .  she seems to understand instinctively how to find performers the audience will like in spite of their flaws .  unfortunately , she may also be starting to understand that she understands .  giving appealing actors an appealing script creates likeable movies .  giving appealing actors a script in which their appeal _is_ the movie makes for unexpectedly awful films like loser .  naturally , heckerling makes her protagonist an all-around swell guy .  paul tannek ( jason biggs ) is a small-town boy who gets a scholarship to nyu , then instantly finds himself an island of compassion and diligence in the cold-hearted big city .  paul is the kind of guy who gives up his seat on the subway to an elderly woman ; his roommates adam ( zak orth ) , chris ( tom sadoski ) and noah ( jimmi simpson ) are the kind of guys who blast their music and let their waterbeds leak all over paul .  paul is also the kind of guy who adores girls from afar , in this case the lovely dora diamond ( mena suvari ) .  dora has problems of her own , including a shortage of funds to pay her tuition and a relationship with a professor , edward alcott ( greg kinnear ) , that's more than slightly one-sided .  they're two conscientious kids who love animals and homeless people , so clearly they belong together , even if paul is a loser .  i must confess that , for a while , i was suckered in by heckerling's casting .  jason biggs is an engaging performer whose unconventional looks make him even easier to embrace ; suvari is a coquette with an undercurrent of intelligence .  they're pleasant enough to watch , and heckerling gives us plenty of scenes establishing how nice they are and how nice their respective antagonists aren't .  then it gradually becomes clear that there's virtually nothing to loser but scenes of that sort .  in theory , loser is a romantic comedy , but there is scarcely a laugh to be found in the entire film ( notable exception : a cameo by a scene-stealing comic actor as a video store clerk ) .  instead of taking any time to make the characters' situations funny , heckerling spends 98 minutes making her characters' situations pathetic .  she shows none of the ear for quirky dialogue that sparked clueless , nor any of that film's interest in lively plotting ( not surprisingly , since clueless's plot came via jane austen's emma ) .  she simply turns the film into a pity party .  since loser is a film composed almost entirely of establishing character , you might think that those characters would be interesting , or at least slightly complicated .  instead , you have people either so perfect or so unredeemable that there's no reason to watch them .  paul isn't just a nice guy , he's flawless ; consequently , he's a central character who does absolutely no growing .  his roommates aren't just inconsiderate , they're actively evil-blackmailing professor alcott , drugging women with rohypnol and generally giving humanity a bad name .  and professor alcott isn't just manipulative , he turns dora into his house slave .  dora's unthinking devotion to alcott is the only whiff of basic human frailty to be found in loser , and even that isn't explored in sufficient detail .  there's more ambiguity in the 30-second snippet from alan cumming's broadway performance as the emcee in cabaret then there is in the rest of loser it's one thing to turn supporting characters into comic exaggerations ; it's another to flatten your leads into easily digestible mush .  and it would help if those comic exaggerations were somehow . . .  i don't know . . .  comic .  still , i spent much of the film holding out the ridiculous hope that heckerling would somehow salvage loser from its tedium and justify my desire to like paul and dora .  that hope dissolved the moment heckerling underscored a sequence of paul in the throes of unrequited love to simon and garfunkel's " scarborough fair/canticle . "  instead of giving the sequence a knowing wink-a reference to the graduate , a hint that paul is becoming an overly-sensitive clich-heckerling plays it deadly straight .  even in the scenes that scream for a light comic touch and a bit of a poke at her protagonist's foibles , she finds it impossible to stray from the gospel of paul as saint .  clueless's cher had her self-absorption and manipulative tendencies to balance her cuteness .  in loser , amy heckerling shows a leaden hand with material that demands friskiness ( her one show of wit involves naming paul's dorm " hunt's hall " after erstwhile bowery boy huntz hall ) .  her gift with casting proved to be her curse .  loser may be a crashing bore , but gee , aren't those two kids swell ? 
pos@ the booming introduction music finishes , and the camera sweeps over red mountains .  we see two figures looking over a barren , and very red landscape .  they kiss , then walk on .  one of the characters ( schwarzenegger ) slips , and falls .  the glass on his mask cracks .  his face scruches up , and his eye's begin to pop . . . . .  then doug quaid , played by schwarzenegger , wakes up .  it's all been a dream .  he wakes up next to his beautiful wife , played by stone , and the film begins . . .  total recall is a typical sci-fi film wrapped around an intresting ( if far fetched ) plot .  quaid , who has never been to mars , keeps on having dreams of the planet , which has now been colanised .  one day , while riding on a train , he's see's a ad for a company called 'rekall' , which implants memories of a holiday , instead of you actually going there yourself .  quaid chooses the 'secret agent on mars' memory , and then the s * * * really hits the fan .  the implant goes wrong , and quaid really thinks he is an agent on mars for about two minutes , until he goes back to normal and can't remember a thing .  however , everyone he knows ( his workmates , his wife ) turn against him , saying how 'blabbed about mars' and 'blew his cover on the mission' a strange man , called richter , played by ironside , wants to kill him .  quaid , now hopelessly confused , follows the advice given to him , by a 'friend' .  he get's his ass to mars .  mars is ruled by cohagen , played by cox , who charges people for air .  against him are the rebels , who are mainly mutants .  the rebel's need quaid to defeat cohagen , because quaid knows ( but can't remember yet ) about a reactor that produces air .  eventually , quaid kills cohagen , turns on the reactor , saves the planet , and goes away with a beautiful girl , just like the guy at rekall promised him .  throughout this plot , there is huge explosions , thousands of deaths ( and i mean a lot of death ) swearing , sex , and everything else that make's a good verhoeven ( director of basic instinct and starship troopers ) movie .  naturally , there's some pretty imaginative deaths , with arms getting ripped off , someone getting drilled , and heads exploding .  as you can tell , it's violent stuff .  but it's done so stylishly , and of course arnie tones it down with a one liner , that's it excusable .  the acting is variable .  arnie , of course , is useless , but he goes has some good lines , and in the first twenty minutes , he even act's like a normal bloke , not like some action hero .  stone , of course , is useless , making a pretty poor wife , and a pretty poor action hero .  but , she does sex scenes alright .  ticoton ( most recently seen in con air ) , again , is ok , doing some good action , but getting her emotions all wrong .  one minute she hates quaid , the next she loves him , and she never gets this tranisition right .  so , the good guys are awful .  but , the bad guy's are excellent .  cox is basically reprising robocop , but he's still great in this , and he delivers the best line in the whole film near the end .  ironside is superbly evil , with an utterly emotionless face .  the supporting cast are fine , and not even the comedy sidekick ( this time in the form of a taxi driver ) is annoying .  one disappointing aspect , though , are the special effects .  ilm and dreamquest do some good work ( such as a subway station scene ) but the model work is not so good .  some of the model heads look appaling fake , and quatto is a major disappointment .  another irritating thing is the product placement .  there are a lot of plugs ( and a good mars today gag ) however , the sets look great , and the special effects at the end of the film aren't too bad either .  there's also a good soundtrack running through , by jerry goldsmith ( the omen , poltergeist , star trek : the motion picture )  overall , then , total recall is a hugely violent , yet hugely enjoyable , action fest , with a reasonable plot thrown in there too , some great bad guys , and some imaganitive death .  for a schwarzenegger movie , this is not bad at all .  in fact , it's very good . 
neg@ capsule : a wild jungle woman and an 11-story gorilla are discovered in tibet and taken to hong kong where the gorilla escapes and causes havoc .  this is a laughable 1977 rip off of king kong ( 1976 ) , itself a rip-off .  production values are low and audiences seem to like the film mostly for derisive laughter .   , high -2 ( -4 to +4 )  - directed by ho meng-hua .  - this film is provided to be a sort of laughing stock to finish the festival .  - an earthquake uncovers an 11-story tall gorilla in the himalayas .  a hunter , chosen because he just broke up with his girl and is at loose ends , gets sent to find the ape and finds a sort of female tarzan who controls the ape .  - evelyne kraft is the jungle girl in a leather bikini that she is pasted into so she always looks on the verge of bouncing out of .  - gorilla actor has no idea how gorillas move and suit is terrible .  nice miniature effects , however .  - has almost a music video inside it of jungle girl playing with animals like chi-chi the leopard .  - several places there is narrative that is nearly incoherent as if there are missing scenes and the viewer has to guess what happened in the interim .  - actual location shooting in mysore .  ape shown badly matted behind temple .  - combining of images usually pretty bad .  incompetent matching of film stocks .  - stock footage frequently used .  - gorilla brought to hong kong by greedy entrepreneur who really abuses the ape before it escapes and tears things up real good . 
pos@ there seem to be two reactions to dark city .  you either love it or you are unimpressed .  count me as a " love it . "  as good as the crow and spawn are , dark city is better .  where the former two have a specific comic-book following , the latter is an original work with the potential for broader appeal .  it has a similar look to the others , but dark city is much more thoughtful and much less violent .  not clever or complex , the story is still fascinating , like a selection from the twilight zone .  a man ( rufus sewell ) is awakened in his bathtub by a man with a syringe .  surprised , the attacker runs off .  the dazed man gets out of the tub and finds a woman's body in the room .  a mysterious caller warns him to leave the apartment immediately , so he packs some clothes and leaves , never sure why he's leaving or what he's fleeing .  ghoulish figures in long coats recognize the man and chase him through the dark city , hounding him like figures in a nightmare .  an odd blast of willpower allows the man to dream himself free from his pursuers long enough to check his i . d .  the amnesiac learns that he is not dreaming and that his name is john murdoch .  now if only he could remember the rest of his life . . . .  dark city is good on many levels .  first , the look of the movie is excellent .  give credit to production designers george liddle and patrick tatopolous for creating a coherent look from diverse elements .  there are visual elements from the american 1920s-60s , mixed with dickens-era urban industrial elements .  it is all pulled together in a sad , dark look reminiscent of the diner in edward hopper's painting , nighthawks .  proyas' use of models gives an appropriately eerie unreality to the film's world ( for not only does the audience see the city a model , but so do the ghouls ) .  the look is like a cross between tim burton's batman and the bleak animation of the brothers quay .  second , the editing of the film is good .  the pacing is on track , and the plot is revealed , the " amnesia " explained , in satisfying increments .  also , the stylized editing within each scene gives the movie a tense , caffeinated look .  third , the special effects are well used .  they look good , but more importantly , the right effects are used for the right job .  one example stands out in my mind : the coated figures who haunt the city can attack telekinetically .  a simple ripple effect is used .  a more showy effect could have been chosen , but then it would have just been gratuitous .  restraint was shown where necessary , letting the more critical effects look more impressive .  finally , like gattaca , dark city spends a just a little effort striving for mythical significance .  unlike gattaca , the story is just open-ended and non-literal enough to be successful .  john murdoch's recovery from amnesia is tied to the passing of the night , and the hopeful coming of the dawn .  his struggle with amnesia is both figuratively and literally the struggle of all mankind ( at least in his world ) .  when we finally see the big picture of the movie's world , it is as mysterious as the iroquois image of the world being carried on the back of a giant turtle .  a few minor flaws keep me from giving this movie the same perfect score roger ebert gave , but i do strongly recommend it , for its look , its pace , its story , and its timelessness . 
neg@  " from the director of " the nightmare before christmas " it said in the previews , which i'm guessing was said to get people to go see the movie , obviously it hasn't worked since the $75 million dollar movie has yet to break $5 million .  to each it's own however , since " monkey bone " is not only a bad movie all together , but technically well-made .  a tragic waste of talent and incredible visual effects .  stu miley is the genius behind the new phenomena " monkey bone " a crude comic strip , that everyone wants to merchandise , they go to great links to get it as well , including dollars that let out fart powder .  when stu and his girlfriend , julie ( bridget fonda ) are in a freak car accident ( you'll see ) stu goes into a coma , and while in his coma stu travels to i'm guessing dark town , where all the characters in dreams come to life .  people are stuck in this town , with their nightmares roaming around them .  when stu spots monkey bone ( whom he really can't stand ) he tries to keep him under control .  making a new friend kitty ( rose mcgowan ) he learns that if he gets an exit pass from death , he can go back up and live his life .  when monkey bone and stu steal a pass , monkey bone becomes a trader and takes it and goes into stu's body .  now monkey bone must get everyone to buy these dolls with nightmare powder , so everyone has nightmares . . . or  something like that .  rather complex ( in fact more than it needs to be ) " monkey bone " had potential in the script and even the story .  what is considerably noticeable is the gaping plot holes , and lack of character development .  for instance we really don't get to know who stu or julie are , so why should we even care ?  kitty played well by rose mcgowan ha a story behind her , but we are not given a chance to know her .  the cast is decent however , brendan fraser seems to be enjoying himself in the role as stu miley , but becomes awfully annoying when monkey bone takes over his body .  bridget fonda is dreary and seems to bring the film to a screeching halt , her performance is bad and she seems miscast .  dave foley isn't given enough to do , as well as " will & grace's " megan mullally who can be funny .  the standout performance is the voice of nick turturro as monkey bone himself , he is very funny and entertaining and really keeps the film from being a total bust .  the special effects of " monkey bone " is what might really bring in some curious viewers , these special effects are highly effective , and nice to look at with the eyes .  some of them are believable and some unbelievable . . . for  monkey bone he seems to be like stuart little , you really don't realize that he is animated . . . but  on occasion it sneaks up on you .  the direction by henry selick is good , but at times he doesn't know what kind of film he wants to make , and the ending climax falls off the cliff .  it's too bad really , " monkey bone " could have been a real good movie , but with it's heavily done hack job , and lack of character development it just sinks when the end credits role .  for those curious however , it might be worth the rental , but other than that avoid this one . 
pos@ this is a good year if you want plenty of sci-fi on your multiplex .  >from the comedies mars attacks and men in black , to luc besson's powerful the fifth element , and to this , sci-fi/horror that is event horizon .   ( more is on the way with contact and alien : ressurection being released later this year . )  the story is thus : in 2040 an explorer ship called the event horizon tests out a newly invented gravity drive .  a device that enables a craft to travel anywhere in the universe , instantaneously .  this is achieved by creating a gateway , infact , a black hole , between the craft and it's required destination .  in this case , from near neptune to proxima prime .  however , when the event horizon attempts this , it dissappears , without trace , leaving two searches for it fruitless .  seven years later , it reappears , transmitting a distress signal and this is where the film starts .  a search and rescue ship is sent out to investigate .  the team is led by laurence fishburne , and joining them is sam neill who plays the scientist that invented the gravity drive .  as the team search the event horizon , they find no trace of the crew but plenty of blood lying around .  not a good sign . . .  to make matters worse , as they search the ship , they find themselves being subjected to a series of illusions based on their own individual inner secrets and worse , some very bloody events start to occur as they slowly piece together the events that transpired on the ship seven years ago .  it soon becomes apparent that , wherever the ship went , it bought something back with it .  something very , very evil . . .  the first thing you'll notice in this film is it's incredible visual effects .  they really are eye popping , with some great models to boot .  the acting is quite good , with some occasional witty moments .  sam neill does a good job as the scientist that increasingly becomes more and more disturbed as the search continues , but a tip of the hat goes to laurence fishburne who leads the team , in a cool , calm , take no nonense manner .  it is his acting skills that help hold this film together .  the idea behind event horizon is certainly a good one .  it starts off incredibly well , but the middle section becomes quite confused and sometimes muddled , leaving the viewer unsure on just what the reasons are behind some of the bloody and bizarre events that occur .  however , the closing 20 minutes of the film more than make up for this , producing one the most nail biting ( or in my case , straw of my drink biting ! )  climaxes i've recently witnessed .  overall , event horizon is a smart film indeed .  it's very enjoyable and has some amazing visuals .  but be warned , the horror scenes , despite being very brief are very , very , gory .  not for the squemish ! 
neg@ starring william baldwin ; cindy crawford & steven berkoff all right , the first problem that fair game has is the casting of supermodel cindy crawford in the lead role .  not that cindy does that bad , it's just that anyone who watches this film knows from moment one that that little bit of casting was not done because of cindy's extraordinary acting skills , but for her extraordinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous in any situation .  and in fair game most situations tend to find cindy either soaking wet or very hot and sweaty , but i'm sure that that is just a coincidence , no doubt that these situations were essential to the plot and the fact that cindy looks great wet , well , that's just a happy coincidence .  sure .  william baldwin isn't a bad actor .  unfortunately , he just doesn't demonstrate it at all in this movie .  i'm not sure if that's because most of his lines were just so hokey , or if he was trying to make cindy's acting look good .  if it was the latter , it worked .  cindy does a surprisingly good job here in her first movie .  which is not to say that she doesn't have room for improvement .  although to be fair to cindy , her lines were kinda cheesy in places .  so right about now you are no doubt asking yourself what sort of movie does cindy crawford , arguably the most beautiful woman on the planet , chose for her foray into the world of cinema ?  well , i'm glad you asked that question .  cindy plays a lawyer who by some convoluted plot twists becomes a target for former elite kgb agents .  why woud they target someone as likable as cindy , you ask ?  by the end of the movie you won't care .  the story is so contrived it isn't funny .  anyway after cindy gets blown out of the window of her house , without getting so much as a scratch i might add , she is placed into protective police custody under the watchful eve of william baldwin .  who's character , max kilpatric , a police detective , seems to possess the skills of some sort of fighting machine ( my guess is that the writers have seen way too many of steven seagal's early films ) .  the point is that the idea of the crawford and baldwin's characters of the run from these killer russians isn't all that bad of an idea , it's just everything around that basic idea which kinda stinks out loud .  the supporting cast members are nothing more that over acted stereotypes .  if i was baldwin , i'd hope this film disappears .  as for crawford , she may indeed have some acting ability .  unfortunately , any she does have is obscured by writing that goes beyond bad .  this movie was obviously written with cindy in mind , since the writers spend most of their time finding ways to capitalize off of her looks .  it's too bad they hadn't spent more time on a half decent plot , since ms . crawford is more than capable of looking just fine all by herself thank you very much .  unless you are a huge fan of either baldwin or crawford this is a movie that will only disappoint you . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " songcatcher " in the midst of this summer's fare of dinos revisited and romantic fiascoes , there are a few thoughtful movies - and this appalachian period drama is one .  oscar nominee janet mcteer ( " tumbleweeds " ) stars as dr . lily penleric , an accomplished musicologist who , back in that pre-feminist era , was refused a full professorship at her university .  determined to prove her worth , she ventures deep into the rugged mountains of north carolina , where her younger sister elna ( jane adams ) runs a school .  there in bear creek , she discovers a treasure-trove of traditional scots-irish and english folk ballads , given a unique interpretation by the insular locals .  excited , she sends for recording equipment and persuades vinie butler ( pat carroll ) and other self-sustaining mountain folk to share their musical heritage on her edison phonograph cylinders .  their music , as she puts it , is " as much a part of life here as the air you breathe . "  that's the main thrust of writer-director maggie greenwald's occasionally uneven culture-clash story , which is loosely based on olive dame campbell's foray through the blue ridge mountains in 1908 , but there's also some melodramatic romantic spice .  ornery , bearded , banjo-picking aidan quinn falls for the statuesque , passionate " songcatcher , " while elna secretly engages in a lesbian relationship with a colleague ( e .  katherine kerr ) .  i'm ready to buy the soulful soundtrack with vocalists like emmylou harris , iris dement , taj mahal and young opera star emmy rossum who plays a pivotal role as mcteer's wide-eyed prot ? g ? .  rated pg-13 , there's an intense scene of primitive childbirth .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " songcatcher " is an intelligent , extraordinary 8 , transported by the transcendent power of song . 
neg@ a slight romantic comedy with a feminist bent , but one with no edge to it .  it turns out to be a conventional film filled with the usual clich ? s and stock characters of this genre .  though it's a well-written and well-acted fluff piece , it still does not have too much to say that is surprising .  it's made for the gentle art-house set , those who don't want something too disturbing to think about .  it's about a critically successful writer husband , alec ( pryce ) , who is so self-absorbed that he's threatened by his department store floor-walking model wife , kate ( bouquet ) , who wants to be a writer .  she meets his crass publisher , vanni corso ( walken ) , another self-absorbed man , and a predictable relationship occurs .  the fireworks occur because she outgrows her husband's first impressions of her as someone who was impressed with his genius and worships at his feet .  she now wants her own identity and her independence .  the film looked like the usual sitcom stuff , and is plagued with the cheap set design features reserved for a tv movie .  the film sagged in the middle of the story from the weight of its tedium , and eventually landed on its rear end with its unspectacular climax .  it's set in london , and it opens as model kate rebuffs sexual advances by a wealthy american shopper , vanni .  she later meets him as her hubby's new upstart publisher who seeks to have her intellectual author husband in his stable in order to give him credibility as a publisher of quality , and he quickly wins favor with her by publishing her vanity novel .  alec who is an obnoxious grouse , someone whom it seems it would be impossible to live with , tries to do everything to stop his wife from having her book published--which only pushes her into the grasping arms of vanni .  the publisher is proud that he's a mamma's boy who never married and is a self-made man who has earned millions .  he has recently acquired a failing old london publishing house and plans to revitalize it , as he proudly tells kate : " if my father could sell pizzas in harlem , i could sell culture in europe . "  the only thing that couldn't be sold , is this stiff story and tired plot line .  the mystery to me , is how the lovely kate could like either man unless she was an insensitive dummy .  she soon divorces the beleaguered alec and marries the soon-to-become-beleaguered vanni .  when she writes a second novel , he rebuffs her the same way her first hubby did .  it ends with the same results that happened to hubby number one , as its story of ambition and lust winds down in a whimper .  a business affair was loosely based on the real-life literary and romantic travails of married authors barbara skelton and cyril connolly , in their celebrated 1950s love triangle . 
pos@ since their film debut in 1984 with the tightly wrought texas thriller " blood simple , " joel and ethan coen have been one of the most eclectic , original , and downright fascinating creative teams in modern hollywood .  their films are highly stylized , deeply embedded in a particular time and place , and their characters are more often than not everyday people who get caught up in highly unusual circumstances .  in " the big lebowski , " their first cinematic offering since the multiple academy award-winning " fargo , " the action takes place in los angeles during the gulf war , and the hero of the story is jeff lebowski , aka the dude .  the dude is played by jeff bridges -- one of hollywood's most underrated actors -- in the best stoned performance since sean penn stumbled through the halls of ridgemont high .  the dude is a simple man who has never quite made it out of the sixties .  he has shaggy , shoulder-length hair , a grizzled goatee badly in need of a trim , and he wears mostly stained tee-shirts , long shorts , and gellies without socks .  he smokes a lot of pot , drinks a lot of white russians , and is more than content to spend the majority of his time bowling with his two buddies , a slightly psychotic vietnam vet named walter sobchak ( john goodman ) and donny ( steve buscemi ) , one of those guys who always wants to be part of the conversation , but never quite makes it in .  one day , the dude is confused with another jeff lebowski ( david huddleston ) , this one being a millionaire philanthropist whose trophy wife , bunny ( tara reid ) , owes a lot of people a lot of money .  the main plot and all its accompanying side-plots and coenesque diatribes are far too complicated to get into here .  suffice to say that the dude becomes deeply involved with the big lebowski when bunny is kidnaped and the dude is asked to be a courier for the ransom money .  by the time all is said and done , walter has become deeply involved , as has the big lebowski's daughter , maude ( julianne moore ) , a feminist performance artist , a pornographer named jackie treehorn ( ben gazzara ) , and a group of german nihilists led by peter stormare , who was so great as the silent but deadly kidnaper in " fargo . "   " the big lebowski " plays like an amalgam of all the coen brothers' earlier efforts .  it shares their previous films' strong sense of time and place , as well as their send-ups of movie genres and political and cultural ideologies .   " lebowski " has the same kind of crazed caricatures that made " raising arizona " such a hoot ; it has surrealistic dream sequences ( one of which involves a busby berkley-like dance number ) that characterized the ending of " barton fink " ; and it has the same kind of cartoonish look and feel that pervaded " the hudsucker proxy . "  the film was shot by veteran cinematographer roger deakins , who has worked with the coens on three other films , " barton fink , " " the hudsucker proxy , " and " fargo . "  deakins always gives the coens' films a distinctive visual style , and here he does a brilliant job of capturing the bright colors of seedy los angeles in the early nineties , whether that by the obnoxious blue bowling suit worn by the dude's main competitor jesus quintana ( john turturro ) , or the strikingly manic dream sequences , one of which involves the dizzy spectacle of watching a strike from a bowling ball's point of view .  if " fargo " was the coen brothers' most restrained effort in years , " the big lebowski " marks their return to over-the-edge filmmaking .  it is overflowing with style and attitude , which helps make up for the scattered plot fragments that never quite come together in the end .  the coens fill the screen with lighting , set design , music , and hilarious performances from all the leads , especially bridges and the always reliable john goodman , who shows real comic timing in his untimely 'nam-inspired outbursts and his intense dedication to his adopted judaism .  with joel directing , ethan producing , and both writing , the coen brothers seem limitless in their capacity to turn our world inside out .  their talent lies not in their ability to reflect the norms of reality , but in their potential to dig out the darkest corners of life and bring them to light .  the coens rejoice in the oddballs of the world , and they put them center-stage to show that it's not just guys like the dude who are nuts , but the entire planet . 
neg@ as the twin surfer dudes , stew and phil deedle , lay bandaged and unconscious in the hospital , phil comes to first and chooses the coolest way to wake his brother .  yanking out his iv , he uses it like a water pistol to soak his brother's face .  this bit of lame physical humor is typical of disney's meet the deedles , a movie more to be endured that watched .   ( i stopped looking at my wife during the screening , since every time i did , she'd start sticking her finger in her throat .  and she's right , it is that bad . )  directed without any imagination by steve boyum , whose long background in film is mainly in stunts and in second unit direction , the film limps along at best .  boyum attempts to keep the pace moving by staging stunts , stunts and more stunts .  amazingly for someone with his background , he seems incapable of finding any fresh ones , and we have a car go off the road five different times -- maybe more .  but who's counting ?  and then there is the script by james herzfeld , whose only other film , tapeheads from a decade ago , was so awful that it is considered a cult classic .  meet the deedles , however , is painfully bad rather than laughably bad .  it will probably be in and out of the theaters like a tornado and is in no danger of becoming a classic anything .  herzfeld treats us to gratingly abysmal dialog that includes " your geyser's a geezer , " and " i'd like to put a deedle in her haystack . "  as the movie opens , the twins , who at one point describe themselves modestly as " a walking kodak moment , " are celebrating their 18th birthday .  as they ride a parasail high above the waters of waikiki , a truant officer pursues them on his jet ski .  as heirs to the fabulous fortune of the deedle empire , the boys are sent by their father to camp broken spirit at yellowstone to transform the two laid-back beach bums into men .  as they arrive in their wetsuits in yellowstone , they've got their surfboards , skateboards , and a hawaiian drink machine the size of an armoire .  their camp has gone out of business , but they are mistaken for new park rangers .  the rest of the movie has them fighting the park's overpopulation of prairie dogs as well as a deranged ex-ranger , played by dennis hopper , who is out to stop old faithful before its billionth birthday celebration , scheduled for later in the week .  hopper , who has made some wonderful movies , carried away being a recent favorite , does have a propensity for choosing some truly odoriferous material .  this isn't his worst acting , but meet the deedles is arguably the worst movie he's ever been in .  steve van wormer and paul walker , as stew and phil , give lifeless performances .  the only actor in the movie with any demonstrable talent is a cute little prairie dog named petey .  even the cinematography by david hennings is so prosaic that it manages to make yellowstone look dull .  to add insult to injury , hennings is fond of inappropriate close-ups , which only serve to remind us of the inanity of the dialog .  put a ten-foot pair of lips on the screen , and you naturally pay extra attention to what is said .  although boyum says in the notes that he is proud that his film is appropriate for families , one wonders how many skateboarders will attempt the movie's stunt of lying on your back on a skateboard while negotiating a busy and twisting mountain road .  they make it look like so much fun that i'm sure many will try some variation of the stunt .   " how could this possibly be worst , " asks phil .  just when you suspect it can't , the movie takes a turn further downhill .  its low point may have you looking for an airline barf bag .  after phil's girlfriend digs up a big mount of moist soil , they suck in a long worm .  like the two dog lovers eating spaghetti in lady and the tramp , their lips finally meet in a kiss .  as they pull back , their faces are full of the dirt that encased the worm they have just ingested .  meet the deedles runs about an hour and a half .  it is rated pg for a little bathroom humor and would be acceptable for kids around 6 and up .  my son jeffrey and his friend nickolas , both almost 9 , gave the show * * * .  they both thought the scenes with petey were among their favorites .  nickolas also mentioned the scene in which the circus bear drives a jeep , and jeffrey especially liked the one in which the circus elephant was referred to as dumbo . 
pos@ the sweet hereafter could serve as a textbook example of the difference between television movies and " real " movies .  consider for a moment what a television producer would do with a book that features a fatal school bus accident and a lawyer out to sign up the bereaved -- lots of hot sensationalism interrupted with breaks to sell beer and toothpaste .  top-flight writer and director atom egoyan delivers instead a film with tremendous power whose most notable trait is its touching subtlety .  based on a respected book of the same name by author russell banks , the movie represents a rethinking of the story's structure , not merely a literal adaptation of the novel .  told in linear form by four narrators in the book , egoyan's version happens instead in overlapping time sequences and without a narrator .  the author is even on record as applauding egoyan's changes .  in the press notes the book's author describes the story as " a parable of lost children . "  he says it asks what a town does in the absence of its children .  picking up on this , egoyan has a flashback in which a sitter , nicole burnell , played with grace by sarah polley , reads parts of " the pied piper " from an old , illustrated book to her two charges .  periodically throughout the picture , nicole's readings are heard in voice-over .  you have never heard this moving poem read so sweetly or in such an appropriate moment .  they and the rest of the town's children come into harm's way -- some live and others are seriously injured .  and the entire small canadian town where the accident occurs is never the same again .  although the physical damage is inflicted mainly on the children , the adults bear the emotional scars of the loss .  ian holm , in arguably the best performance of his distinguished career , plays mitchell stephens , an intense man of quiet misery .  mitchell is the outsider in the story set in a small , snow-encrusted community in the british columbian wilderness .  his mission there is a singular one , to sign up the parents so that he can sue someone , anyone , on their behalf .  if this seems crass , well it is , but mitchell approaches his job with the dedication of a religious zealot .  the story unfolds slowly and always believably .  each little aspect has its own fascination .  as mitchell interviews wendell and rita walker , played with quiet realism by maury chaykin and alberta watson , he has a simple task .  he wants them to suggest some model couple in the village who has a lost a child so that he can use that couple to form the basis of the suit .  wendell ticks off one town member after another and then , as one can in a small town , enumerates each person's numerous faults .  although the town is no peyton place , people there do have their foibles .  one of the best parents in the town appears to be billy ansell ( bruce greenwood ) , who rides his pickup behind the school bus everyday just so he can wave good-bye to his kids .  well , single parent billy's fault is that he has regularly scheduled trysts with the married rita .  his confessions to rita about his feelings of loss are one of the many heartfelt outpourings in the story .  the accident itself , a simple one of a bus hitting a patch of ice , isn't shown until the middle of the picture , but , nevertheless , the mystery about it builds throughout the film .  although the picture is no detective story , finding out exactly what happened is a subtheme in a movie that is primarily a character study of a town gripped by tragedy .  as the injured bus driver , gabrielle rose , dolores driscoll plays the role of a dedicated individual who loves kids with a passion and for whom the tragedy takes on special meaning .  to round out the story , mitchell has his own private tragedy to bear .  his daughter zoe ( caerthan banks ) is a drug addict who has bounced in and out of one half-way house and recovery center after another .  fond of calling her dad on his cell phone so she can ask for money or help , she interrupts him at many emotionally charged moments as he attempts to sign up the townsfolk .   ( " i can help you , " mitchell tries to reassure billy .   " not unless you can raise the dead , " billy snaps back .  mitchell's pitch is never an easy one and worrying about zoe only makes it harder . )  mychael danna's haunting music sets the stage for tragedy .  the cinematography by paul sarossy is sweeping in its outdoor grandeur , but it is in the warm , shadowy , intimate moments indoors where it works best .  the show , which is ripe for emotional manipulation , never plays with its audience .  still , when the house lights go up , you may feel as i did .  i could barely breathe ; i was so overcome by the sum total of what i had witnessed .  more than anything , the film is like a master painting .  each cinematic brush stroke is carefully laid down by egoyan with the beauty building with each dollop of paint .  with the final color in place , the masterpiece is complete , and the ending credits roll .  the sweet hereafter runs 1 : 50 .  it is rated r for mature themes , sexuality and some profanity and would be fine teenagers . 
neg@ the last line ( or near to that honor ) is the great butler , alfred ( the ubergod , michael gough ) saying , " i think we need a bigger bat cave , " or something to that note .  that's exactly what this film is - too big for its own good because it has too damn much .  cut batgirl out .  cut one of the villains .  it's too much to handle in one dosage .  it's so much that characters get left behind .  poor elle gets a mere 3 scenes and a subplot which is introduced but never finished in any way , shape or form .  and elle deserves better .  this is the fourth in the gigantic film series and the second from director joel schumacher .  it's also the fourth worst in the series ( and second worst from joel ) .  the series has been declining since its stunning debut , followed by the almost-as-stunning sequel and then the anti-climactic third one ( first by joel ) .  this one's not anti-climactic - i knew it was gonna suck .  it's up to joel to make it fun though .   " batman forever " was fun .  this is a big bore of over-produced action sequences and shallow characters .  i mean , this one bit .  i'm gonna put all the plot in one paragraph : mr . freeze ( ah-nold ) , who's wife was dying of some disease , has become the new big villain these days .  he's a huge ex-scientist who fell into some weird liquid ( hello ?  joker ? ) and now has a body temperature of a big fat zero and has a blue body .  batman ( george ) and robin ( chris ) fight him a bit but find they're growing apart .  meanwhile , another villain shows up , poison ivy ( uma ! ) , who was a dorky scientist chick working on flowers in south america with a twistet scientist ( john glover ) who kills her when she finds out he's used her research to develop an uberman , bane , who is basically a man pumped with chemicals which probably killed any personality he ever had .  she emerges from her chemicals ( don't ask 'cause i can't tell ya ) as a sexy woman ( the real uma ) who's poison when or if you kiss her and has some aphrodiasiatic scent she blows at people .  she starts to tear away at the dynamic duo .  meanwhile , alfred's dying of the same disease mr . freeze's wife has ( but in an earlier state than she ) , and his niece , barbara ( alicia ) , comes all the way from oxford without an english accent to get him away from the butler trade , but soon ( well , not really soon , it takes her 2 hours ) becomes batgirl .  meanwhile , in an unfinished subplot , bruce ( batman's alter-ego , if you forgot ) has been dating the lovely julie madison ( the even lovlier elle macpherson ) who wants a commitment after a year but he says nothing .  end of her for all we know .  mr . freeze ultimately teams with poison ivy and they want to freeze the world and then take it over growing new plants as their population ( don't ask ! ! ! ) .  the trio must team together " as family " to beat them .  there ya go .  not the whole story but no big context clues .  too much , right ?  right !  the films seems patched together of nice little ideas which would have made for a couple good sequels .  however , while tim burton nicely balanced the villain/batman storyline ( although not wonderfully ) , joel seems to do almost nothing with batman in this one .  he gets some corny speeches , a couple clever lines and that's it .  maybe some stunts .  for all this , i can't even comment on george clooney as batman - i hardly saw the guy !  and when i did , he had horrible dialogue to say .  i think michael keaton is the quintessential batman but val kilmer was too robotic and fake as batman in the last episode .  george is in between them .  he's not quintessential , he's not horrible , he's good .  but i'm sure next time when they decide to renovate the series since they'll be critically murdered for this sorry effort , we'll get a good script and clooney will shine ( if he still has the job ) .  the villains are the only interesting part of the series according to schumacher .  last time , we had the brawn of two face as played by tommy lee jones and the brains/comedy supplied by the riddler as realized by jim carrey .  this time we have a somewhat sympathetic and somewhat hatable villain ( the same guy ) , mr . freeze .  we feel bad for his mental/physical collapse but does he really need to kill everyone for plants ?  arnold isn't very good - too hokey but kinda sympathetic at some points .  when he watches old movies of his wife , he actually looks somber .  wow .  but uma makes the most of her seductive character , getting the right point between hamminess and seductiveness .  it's like she's almost parodying herself in " pulp fiction " at points .  she's incredibly hot and makes the movie pretty much a star better .  as for the lower bat-people , chris is the same as he was in " batman forever , " although i think his work in these is too hokey when he's best at quieter parts in " scent of a woman " or just plain cool parts in " fried green tomotoes . "  alicia - i love the girl but she's not particularly good in this film .  she can hypotheitically act , we all saw that in " clueless , " but her lines kinda sound weird .  and it isn't the mushy-mouth this time .  but in all fairness , she has virtually no part .  joel gets around to her occasionally and when she's on , she does stupid stuff . . . although  i know i'm not the only one who loved the catfight between her and uma . . .  and poor elle .  poor , poor elle .  i love that woman and she can also hypothetically act ( for those of us who saw " sirens " ) .  but she has no part ! ! !  it seems like joel had so much footage that he had to edit almost an hour out of the final product .  there are no " couch " scenes ( like my best friend noticed ) .  now listen to me on this one - in every " batman " flick , there's a couch scene .  in the original , it was with vicki .  in " returns , " it was a good make-out scene with selena .  and in the last one , it was a chat with nicole .  this one , it's nothing .  and batgirl does next-to-nothing in this film till the end when she's suddenly " part of the family . "  fortunately , we get a lot of alfred .  he's the always reliable butler , in case you didn't know , who has been with bruce all his life .  he's a god .  he's a father figure .  he's also dying .  this got to me .  i love alfred almost as much as bruce and to see him in a robe , not in his tux , and freaking dying just gets to me .  we also get the idea that he might have been unhappy the whole time . . . but  this is never answered , as this film is too cluttered .  but in defense , it does have some good parts , other than uma .  for one , george is a good batman but unfortunately gets nothing to do .  and there are some nice touches .  when they show the asylum at one point , they show the patient's belongings in a room and we see the riddler's costume .  i laughed .  and during a biker scene ( involving robin and batgirl - another subplot never handled past initiation period ) , we not only see coolio but a bunch of bad-asses dressed as " droogs " from " a clockwork orange . "  i laughed at all these .  the film falls apart around the five-minute mark during an enormously long action sequence which must last around 20 minutes . . . or  did it just feel like that ?  the film should serve as another in the long-line of films which demonstrate that we need more intelligent films nowadays .  people are fed up with stupid films .  that's why the word of mouth killed " the lost world ! "  that's why last year , indy films grossed more than ever .  that's why this will have a strong box-office initative from people who just want to see it , like me , but will die after a week or two when the word around the grapevine kills it .  that's why the next two big-budget aciton pics are john woo's " face/off " and barry sonnenfeld's " men in black , " both which are the first two to catch on to the wave early on .  i like joel schumacher more as a person than an artiste .  i like some of his films ( " flatliners , " " a time to kill " ) but a lot of them suck .  he's a really eccentric person and i loved one of his quotes about how he admits to being a mediocre director and that's what makes him great .  but his costuming for woody allen's " sleeper " was more interesting than this one ( and his costuming was cool - look for the nazi number ) .  i love the " batman " series .  the first two rocked and i did like the last one .  but this one is not going to be one that i watch repeatedly like the other three .  hopefully , this will also serve as a springboard to a better batman next time .  and maybe they'll get smart and bring back catwoman .  and michael keaton .  but we can only hope . 
pos@ i saw simon birch in a basically sold out theater , on a sunday afternoon .  when the movie was over and the audience was exiting , i didn't hear one negative comment , and i didn't have any to offer .  simon birch is primarily about the friendship of two twelve year old boys , simon ( ian michael smith ) and joe ( joseph mazzello ) , and what destiny holds for both of them .  simon is a dwarf , who was not supposed to last through the night after birth due to a weak heart .  surprisingly , he does , and now constantly reminds everyone that he is a living miracle .  simon thinks god has a plan for him , a purpose for his life , and his condition , he just doesn't know what .  joe is an illegitimate child ( referred to both comically and dramatically throughout the film as a bastard ) , who's mom ( ashley judd ) won't tell him who his father is .  simon has more than just dwarfism as a problem , the people in the town don't really like him , because he isn't " natural " .  even his own parents don't care about him , and are disappointed they didn't have a " normal " son .  he is also harassed in church by the local pastor , rev . russell ( david strathairn ) and simon's chain smoking sunday school teacher played by jan hooks .  the only person , other than joe , that really cares for simon is joe's mom , who he also looks up to as a mother .  it would be just simon's luck , that he would accidentally kills joe's mom , something you are told at the beginning of the movie .  joe , now motherless as well as fatherless , feels the need to find out who his real father is .  with the help of ben ( oliver platt ) , the local drama teacher and joe's mom's current boyfriend ( before her death ) , he will attempt to locate his dad and get in a little trouble on the way .  most of this trouble is laugh out loud funny , although not all of it is .  simon will also look for god's plan for him , although he loses a little faith along the way .  starring in the first ( and last ) five minutes of the film is hollywood's newest dramatic actor , jim carrey .  jim plays the adult version of joe and does a impressive job starting the film off , and then tying it up just right .  this is the first character jim has played that is not over the top in anyway , and he does a commendable job .  simon birch is written and directed by mark steven johnson , this is his first film as director , but he has written several films , including the grumpy old men series .  he does an outstanding writing and directing job here , the film's structure is flawless and its flows together perfectly .  the dialog goes from extremely funny to morose without missing a beat .  the cast is excellent .  joseph mazzello gives the stand out performance .  joseph is outstanding for someone of any age , not alone someone who just turned 15 .  ian michael smith , in his film debut , has such a strong physical presence that you believe he is simon without any hesitation .  other great performances are turned in by the rest of the supporting cast .  i loved this movie , it is far and away one of the best films i have seen all year .  take your whole family to see simon birch , it is a magnificent film- an american masterpiece . 
neg@ synopsis : melissa , a mentally-disturbed woman who likes to smoke , seduces doug , a minor-league baseball player who likes to study anatomy , work on motorcycles , and make out with his girlfriend in a public library .  when doug decides to stop seeing her , melissa maliciously takes revenge on those around him , including his girlfriend , his mother , and his cat .  comments : malicious , i suppose , is an acceptable moview for what it is : a cheap , b-movie thriller which rips off dozens and dozens of spurned-psycho-lover-who-wants-revenge films ( like fatal attraction , hand that rocks the cradle , etc . etc . ) that have come before it .  malicious , however , really doesn't provide very many particularly suspenseful moments .  the plot starts off energetically enough , the main characters are introduced and the affair between doug and melissa begins and ends pretty early on in the film .  it starts to drag , unfortunately , after this .  melissa will obviously try to take her revenge on doug ( as always seems to happen in movies like these ) , but she does so in unimaginative ways that have been done in other , better thrillers before .  she drugs someone .  she kills a family pet and leaves it in the girlfriend's apartment .  and , of course , she stalks , so we see a number of shots , which are supposed to be suspenseful , where she's spying on doug and his girlfriend .  i won't reveal the ludicrous ending to this turkey , but i warn you that it's both painfully obvious and a real yawner .  john vernon does a remarkably good job at playing the not-so-bright baseball jock who initially gets swept away by melissa ( one of the script's faults is to try to pass off a character like this as a pre-med student ) .  the same cannot be said , though , for molly ringwald .  at times , she can effectively pull off the obsessed lover routine , especially during her silent , i'm-going-to-stare-you-down scenes .  at other times , however , she just seems somehow goofy and out of place .  in one particular scene which i guess was supposed to be suspenseful , she screeches " f--k you , you b-----d " and throws a phone .  she delivers the line so ridiculously that one can't help but laugh .  malicious certainly isn't the worst thriller of its kind out in the video racks ( a number of really fat turkies in this genre are out there ) , but it isn't all that good or original either .  feel free to treat this film maliciously , watch something else . 
pos@ the seasoned capt . dudley smith ( james cromwell ) questions his new protege , ed exley ( guy pearce ) about his political views when it comes to police work .   " would you plant evidence to get a conviction if you knew the person to be guilty ?  would you shoot a man in the back if you knew that it was the only way to make sure he got what he deserved ? "  exley , squeaky clean , innocent , and pent with the desire to perform his new duties with integrity and honesty quickly answers with a pointed 'no . '  stunned , smith pleads , " then , for the love of god , don't be a detective . "  la confidential is a dandy piece of filmmaking that brings us back to the classic times of hollywood in the 50s .  organized crime was the biggest concern , corruption existed everywhere , and every cop had his own way of getting the job done .  there was " hollywood " jack vincennes ( kevin spacey ) who gets most of his information from the editor of a sleazy tell-all/show-all tabloid , sid hudgeons ( danny devito ) .  sporting dark sunglasses and a white sports coat , he isn't afraid to flash his tinseltown style .  detective bud white ( russell crowe ) has only a narrow-minded view of the law , and he uses excessive force to exact his unique kind of interrogation and brutal justice .  and then there is golden boy exley , wide-eyed and ambitious but extremely naive .  a horrible multiple murder begins to draw these three men together , each of whom become inexorably connected in their search for truth , action , and personal vindication .  almost immediately , an arrest is made .  but something doesn't seem quite right .  new developments become sinuous as the story begins to draw us deeper into the labyrinth of corruption and crime within the department .  suspicion and questions begin to mount .  odd alliances are created .  and as layers of the truth become revealed , the story grows more complex and intriguing by the moment .  when the mystery expands , we see other seemingly guilty characters enter the lives of these three cops , including a high-priced hooker ( kim basinger ) and a shady millionaire ( david strathairn ) .  all of the characters' levels of involvement are not immediately clear .  we watch with riveted fascination to learn more about why they are there and their stake in the case .  we sense a cross-pollination of clues that brings us , the audience , closer to the truth .  we hope that the three detectives can throw away their spite for one another and can pull their resources together in order to untangle the intricately created web of mystery .  absorbing and affecting , this movie has all the necessary ingredients to create a terrific gourmet serving of film noir .  it boasts mysterious figures in control , double-crosses , hard information from sleazy sources , dirty politicians , corrupt cops , haunting women , and hard-nosed cops experiencing moral ambiguity .  the underlying mystery is compelling .  the look and feel of the movie is gorgeous .  the entire cast is crisp and wonderful to watch ( i wouldn't be surprised if cromwell received an oscar nomination for his performance ) .  and , the dialogue is rich and memorable .  the best line of the movie is spoken when a key player dispenses advice to one of the detectives unsure of what to do .   " don't start trying to do the right thing , boy-o , " says he .   " you haven't had the practice . "   " l . a . confidential'' triumphantly achieves the rare gift of complexity and coherence while satisfying our desire for a good old-fashioned movie . 
neg@ i have nothing against unabashedly romantic films .  when done right , with at least slightly evident restraint , they can be engaging , sweeping , appealing .  but it's a hell of a shame when someone botches it as badly as nora ephron botched sleepless in seattle , a hollow , boring romance that should appeal only to the most gullible of viewers ; the ones willing to buy into ephron's whiny views of life and romance .  tom hanks and meg ryan , two of hollywood's most likeable stars play sam baldwin and annie reed , repectively .  baldwin's wife recently died and he moved to seattle with his son , jonah , seeking to get away from the familiar surroundings which remind him of his late spouse .  jonah senses tension and calls a talk radio show to tell the world about their problems .  sam seems ready to strangle his son for calling the show , but when he gets on the phone he begins pouring his heart out .  ephron has him do this so that annie reed ( meg ryan ) can hear it .  annie is a happy woman .  she is engaged to walter , an allergy-prone working man and seems to be perfectly content .  but after hearing sam the widower on the radio show , she becomes convinced that he is her destiny and is willing to risk her engagement for it .  five years after this movie hit theaters , hanks , ryan and ephron would team up again in the far better , although still sub-par romantic comedy you've got mail , which is about people who hate each other in real life falling in love on the internet .  at least that movie had a sense of spontaneity .  here it seems that the first one hundred minutes exist solely to set up for the last five .  the fact that sam and annie will finally meet is so excruciatingly obvious that everything else is perfunctory .  sleepless in seattle is full of wonderful performers ; from its two leads to supporting stars like bill pullman and rosie o'donnell .  but none of them can save the film from being a bore .  its characters are dull and empty , its script isn't funny or particularly charming .  the script has a fundamental problem : annie gives up , for little reason , her life with walter to pursue " sleepless in seattle , " whom she has never even seen .  it's the kind of life decision that real people don't make , and its a major , unforgivable plausibility sacrifice .  in essence , this movie's purpose is to head towards a goal that shouldn't even exist .  it's a ten minute short film with ninety-five minutes of filler .  if you were to show me sleepless in seattle and i didn't have to review it , you could just call me " asleep in philadelphia . "   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
pos@ susan granger's review of " the perfect storm " ( warner bros . )   " more people die on fishing boats , per capita , than working in any other job in the u . s . .  every journey a fishing boat makes can be an all-or-nothing risk .  it is life at its most exhilarating and its most terrifying , " says director wolfgang petersen ( " das boot " ) .  and that's just what he captures in this true story of struggle and humanity aboard a swordfishing boat , the andrea gail , sailing out of gloucester , massachusetts , in late october , 1991 .  early in bill wittliff's screenplay , based on sebastian junger's best-seller , we meet the crew of six .  the veteran captain ( george clooney ) is frustrated because he can't find fish on the grand banks , yet a rival skipper ( mary elizabeth mastrantonio ) brings in huge hauls .  his right-hand man ( mark walhberg ) needs money to build a new life with his girl-friend ( diane lane ) .  there's a devoted dad ( john c . reilly ) with an estranged wife and son , a free-spirited jamaican ( allen payne ) , a lonely guy ( john hawkes ) , and a last-minute replacement with a bad attitude ( william fichtner ) .  the skipper's convinced he can change his bad luck streak in remote flemish cap , and he does .  but then trouble begins .  there's a rogue wave , a man overboard and the ice machine breaks - with 60 , 000 lb .  of fish that could spoil .  but that's minor compared with a deadly monster storm approaching which a boston meteorologist describes as " a disaster of epic proportions " that also threatens the lives of a coast guard helicopter rescue team trying to save three people stranded on a sailboat on the high seas .  it's formulaic and there are cliches , but the walls of water , created by fluid dynamics simulating real-life phenomena , are awesome .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the perfect storm " is a terrifying , suspenseful 8 .  hang on for the white-knuckle thrill ride of the summer ! 
neg@ the happy bastard's quick movie review  the concept of enjoying a stupid comedy is best realized as keeping it stupid , really .  shift gears even once and the audience can be thrown miserably out of control .  sadly , that is the case with kingpin , a film directed by the farrelly brothers , the duo that brought us there's something about mary and dumb and dumber .  since the duo directed and didn't write the script , i can assume that's part of the problem .  the story seems good enough : a pro bowler in the 1970's by the name of roy munson ( woody harrelson ) is sitting on top of the world .  his popularity has gone through the roof and he's getting his career off the ground .  then , however , he runs into ed mccracken ( bill murray ) , a rival bowler with hardly any real consideration for , well , anything .  these two form an ill-timed relationship that involves risky betting , and , before roy sees it coming , ed's abandoned him and he's about to lose his hand in a bowling ball machine .  forward seventeen years later , where roy has become quite the loser , complete with mechanical hand , torn-up car , and , of course , the occasional knocking up of the ugly-ass landlord to avoid paying rent for a while .  however , he finds a glimmer of a hope upon a visit to a local bowling alley , where he runs into an amish kid named ishmael ( randy quaid ) , who has quite the bowling arm .  with the kid's help , he figures he can be known again , particularly at the biggest bowling tournament rapidly approaching in reno , nevada .  of course , the amish kid needs some coaxing , particularly when you consider , well , he's amish .  this leads to some of the best comic scenes in the film , such as roy's process of removing horseshoes or milking the cow .  finally , the duo get on the road and , along the way , pick up an additional helper- a beautiful hustler ( played by the gorgeous vanessa angel ) .  the main problem i had with kingpin wasn't the fact it wasn't funny .  in fact , it does have some rather hilarious scenes in it , such as the aformentioned above and roy's explanation of not having children ( something involving a cheese grater ? ) .  but that's just it- scenes .  there's a couple of really serious scenes that throw off the entire momentum of the movie , like the abuse angel takes from her hustler ex-boyfriend .  i mean , was this really necessary ?  couldn't have this been handled just a bit wackier ?  i mean , this is a comedy , why throw ethics in ?  particularly in a farrelly brothers vehicle , where hair gel can be easily mistaken ?  that really ruined it , however , and that's too bad .  the acting is top notch , especially from angel and murray , and the really funny scenes are worth noting .  still , if you're going to think dumb , think dumb all the way through , ok ?  at least the farrelly brothers got back on track with mary or i'd still be a little bit irked . 
pos@ those of you who frequently read my reviews are not likely to be surprised by the fact that i have not read victor hugo's novel les miserables .  i don't know if a lot of people have , though i imagine many are familiar with the popular musical based on the novel .  i haven't even seen that .  going into this film , i had almost no knowledge of the story or its characters ( i even expected the film to be a musical ) .  walking away from it , i'm kind of glad i had no prior experience with the material .  writer/director bille august's film version is a straightforward , beautifully told film .  liam neeson stars as the miserable jean valjean ; in the beginning , he has just been released from a 19-year prison sentence .  he is allowed to stay in a convent by a kindly priest despite his rude and destructive behavior .  the priest's words of wisdom influence him , and he makes a vow to change himself .  nine years later , we are informed that he is now the mayor of a town called vigo ; nobody knows his real name , and that he is wanted for skipping his parole nine years ago .  conflicts arise when inspector javert ( geoffrey rush ) is assigned to vigo .  valjean remembers javert as one of the prison guards who constantly beat him , and javert remembers jean to be a convict .  javert is hell-bent on upholding the law , and he does everything in his power to bring jean to justice .  along the way , valjean meets and falls in love with a peasant woman , fantine ( uma thurman ) , and vows to take care of her daughter , cosette ( played later by claire danes ) .  les miserables is visually a solid and often striking picture .  the production design by anna asp is authentic and vast , and the sets don't look like sets ( they look like real towns and villages ) ; gabriella pescucci's costumes are noticeably spectacular .  basil poledouris' soundtrack is thick and usually well-placed ( though it does get a bit heavy at times ) .  many scenes in the film have a memorable photographic quality , such as the climax , which takes place next to a dark river in the grey obscurity of early evening .  augusts keeps the story simple ( which i hear is a good thing , since the novel is so complex ) and easy to follow .  he manages to develop the main characters and most of the subplots adequately .  i was also impressed that he didn't go overboard with flash and style , which is something so many directors seem to be doing to classic stories these days ( such as baz luhrmann's vicious tragedy william shakespeare's romeo + juliet ) .  this film feels solid and whole , and each scene has a certain amount of importance and vigor that keeps the audience interested .  liam neeson is terrific in the main role ; neeson is the kind of actor who does solemn desperation extremely well , and valjean is certainly a man who clearly fits that adjective .  thurman , in her small role , is very good , and proves that she has a lot of range and can perform in a very non-glamorous role such as this one .  rush is absolutely incredible as javert ; i don't remember ever feeling so strongly about a villain as i do here ; he adds depth and complexity with subtle glances and nuances , and effortlessly makes each of his scenes intense .  i can't be as charitable for danes , however ; though i know she is a talented actress , here she tends to overact when it might have been better to underplay the character a bit .  les miserables is , as i've said , a solid , intelligent motion picture .  my only complaint is that it feels a bit too easy , and perhaps too staged .  each scene is grand and huge , and exploding with poledouris' score , but i didn't always want them to be .  for the most part , les miserables is not a subtle or deep picture .  it's a good movie , and tells its story well , but august tends to hand-feed us themes and scenes that would have worked better had they been more subtle .  however , in a film this exciting and well-produced , a few minor flaws are easily overlooked . 
neg@ in french , the phrase " film noir " literally means " black film . "  webster defines it as " a type of crime film featuring cynical malevolent characters in a sleazy setting and an ominous atmosphere that is conveyed by shadowy photography and foreboding background music . "  classic film noir , including such memorable fare as " the big sleep , " the original " cape fear , " and orson welles' striking " a touch of evil , " employed black and white photography to emphasize the long shadows associated with the genre .  color came into play with neo-noir films like " chinatown " and " blade runner . "   " l . a . confidential , " easily the best film of 1997 , is a wonderful piece of contemporary neo-noir filmmaking .  for a textbook example of how to take all the elements of neo-noir and create an absolute mess , there's " palmetto . "  based on " just another sucker , " a short story written by british author rene raymond under the pseudonym james hadley chase , " palmetto " shows what happens when a filmmaker puts style ahead of substance .  director volker schlondorff ( " tin drum , " the handmaid's tale " ) stated " we weren't even sure for a long time if it was going to be a thriller or a comedy . "  it shows .   " palmetto " is too preposterous too be taken seriously as a thriller and too ponderous to work as a comedy .  the story begins when journalist harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is released from prison .  someone turned state's witness and revealed that harry was framed , a " reward " for blowing the lid on corruption in the small florida town of palmetto .  bitter and broke , harry plans to hitchhike to miami and start his life over , but ex-girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) appears to return him to palmetto .  while hanging out at a bar , he notices that a beautiful woman has left her purse in a phone booth .  harry pockets her cash , only to have the woman reappear and catch him with her money in his pocket .  no problem , though .  the radiant blonde is rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue , ) the young wife of a very rich older man with heart problems , and she has a proposition for harry .  rhea needs " a threatening voice and someone to collect the ransom " for the staged kidnapping of her teenage stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny . )  the girls want to bilk a half-million dollar " ransom " from the old man and will happily give harry $50 , 000 for helping with the scam .  things go wrong , of course .  odette is found dead , leaving harry frantically trying to dispose of the corpse and cover his tracks .  in an ironic twist , harry is asked to work for the local d . a . 's  office .  they need a press liaison to field questions about odette's kidnapping and feel that harry is the perfect man for the job .  not a bad set-up for a noir film , if only schlondorff knew how to handle the material , but he never settles on a consistent tone .  the actors don't know what to do with their characters either , muddling the proceedings even further .  as if that wasn't enough , the story suffers from major problems in logic .  woody harrelson is a talented actor with an admirable willingness to take on risky parts , but he's lost here .  presented as a crusading journalist who was horribly wronged , it makes no sense that harry would be stupid and dishonest enough to get caught up in this scheme .  harrelson clearly doesn't know what to do with harry's character , so he spends most of the film glowering , sweating and generally acting miserable .  meanwhile , elisabeth shue gives a goofy performance , behaving like a vamp on nitrous oxide .  as the stepdaughter , chloe sevigny lays on so many slurpy quirks that she comes off like juliette lewis jr . despite a number of steamy scenes , there's no chemistry between harrelson and the women .  to make matters worse , schlondorff badly dubs in dialogue while the character's lips are running over each others bodies .  two particularly bad scenes highlight the film's problems .  while driving with a body in his trunk , harry has a minor car wreck and a cop shows up .  the officer wants to help change harry's flat tire and asks him to open the trunk .  harry's pathetic attempts to keep the trunk closed might have worked if played as comedy , but under schlondorff's grim direction , the scene is just embarrassing .  the film's nadir comes when a bad guy prepares to kill harry and nina .  we're supposed to be horrified watching our hero dangling over a bathtub filled with acid , but by this point the film has foundered so badly that the scene is merely reminiscent of when jessica and roger rabbit were suspended over a vat of dip .  had " palmetto " been played with tongue firmly in cheek , it might have been an entertaining shaggy dog story .  but under the harsh direction of schlondorff , the film is just a sluggish paint-by-numbers exercise in neo- noir cluelessness .  avoid this nonsense and go see " l . a . confidential " instead . 
pos@ after a rather disappointing " mary railly " , stephen frears is now officially back in business with a comeback worthy of praise .  this is one of the best surprises of this season -- a sweet , small budget comedy with a big heart .  in fact it's not even a comedy .  it's a drama or even more precise -- a clever satire on human relationships and needs .  based on a 1995 critically acclaimed novel by british author nick hornby , ``high fidelity'' is a wry and likable story about a man's quest for fulfillment and happiness .  rob gordon was a dj .  it seems that he could make everything spin -- except his own life .  now he owns championship vinyl , a little musical store , somewhere in new york .  when he suddenly gets dumped by his girlfriend , a gorgeous blond attorney , life suddenly looses every purpose .  decimated , humiliated and on the verge of a mental ( and emotional ) breakdown , he starts meditating over his life and the way it could have been -- about what's right and what's important .  he starts " categorizing " life , dividing it into " top 5 lists " .  and the most important is the " top 5 list " over the most painful breakups of his life , starting with 5th grade , when he found his young girlfriend with another boy .  though you might think that people change , grow more mature with age , it just doesn't seem that way and all rob's relationships were different versions of that first .  where did he go wrong ?  was it he that screwed up ?  or maybe life just stinks ?  while he is lost in his own self-pity , he must think of the " top 5 list " over his needs for the future , find the right elements and mix his life together .  with clever parallels to the cult of celebrity , music and with incredibly direct narration , it addresses the average audience member , in other words -- people like you and me .  although a lot of this honor should be addressed to the screenwriter ______ and frears , the director , the acting is equally important as the written word .  and here john cusack should absolutely be mentioned .  he is simply superb .  it is as much his movie as it is frears' .  the film would not be the same without him .  cusack -- whose character is sadder , wiser and 35 -- brings intelligence and warmth to post- mod irony .  most of his dialogue is delivered directly to the camera -- not an easy task -- but cusack pulls it off .  his interpretation feels so emotionally right , so incredibly realistic and precise that frears' message simply can't be ignored or overseen .  the other members of the cast do an equally remarkable job .  both ______ and jack black are fabulous .  even catherine zeta jones appears in a role where she actually acts , not just looks beautiful .  however , the most unexpected pleasant surprises is provided by todd louiso who delivers a spectacular comic performance as rob's co-worker and friend dick .  this is such an impressive achievement that it's almost worth a oscar-nomination .  he is simply a joy to behold .  otherwise , everyone are in their place , and at the right time -- all part of frears' colorful blend .  pretty much like edward norton's " keeping the faith " , this film doesn't follow any formula or belong to any genre -- it's dramatic , tragic , sarcastic , comic and even cynical , but never bitter or angry .  it's a little bit of everything , pretty much like life itself .  nothing seems unreal or staged .  it reflects reality as a mirror .  as you watch it , you go through the same emotional problems as the main character .  you feel and think and reflect .  this effect has become a rarity nowadays .  although it's primarily about the perils of love , ``high fidelity'' is secondarily about pop music .  rob owns championship vinyl and his employees , timid dick ( todd louiso ) and overbearing barry ( jack black ) , are fellow music snobs .  music is the language in their lives , the measure by which they define themselves and mark the significant events of their lives .  and so does the movie .  it is as much a musical film as anything else , as rob's journey is wonderfully portrayed through carefully inserted musical fragments .  in the end , you have gained something while watching it .  it's not the film of the century or even of the year .  it's not an special effects extravaganza .  it doesn't require big explosions or digital creatures to succeed .  it's a small movie about the big things .  and even though it does not contain heavy philosophy , you feel as if you have experienced something of significance , and you will experience that nice warm feeling for quite some time . 
neg@ one night , during a torrential downpour that flooded the streets , we went to see -- what else -- hard rain .   " so , are we all going to die ? "  the sheriff ( randy quaid ) asks in the story's opening line as he evacuates his flooded town .  the answer is pretty much yes , but not nearly soon enough .  and to add insult to injury , the supposedly dead , regretfully , often turn out not to be so .  populating this bad tv-movie-of-the-week material are a host of talented actors .  one can only hope they were rewarded handsomely for acting in this hopelessly muddled picture .  besides the obvious hardships of acting most scenes while dog paddling in the water , they will all receive black marks on their records for appearing in this dismal movie .  graham yost's script serves up one cliche after another for the actors , who thankfully managed to mumble quite a few of the lines .  director mikael salomon's staging is so confusing that you may have trouble figuring out what is happening .  the befuddled presentation is exacerbated by peter menzies , jr . 's dark and ugly cinematography .  the plot concerns an armored car that gets stuck in the raging water .  onboard are guards tom and his uncle charlie .  christian slater , who is much better in his tender roles as in untamed heart , plays tom .  edward asner drops by briefly to take on the role of the soon to be dead charlie .  coming to their " rescue " is a gang headed by jim , played on autopilot by the great actor morgan freeman .  he views the loot , three million dollars worth , as his retirement plan .  the entire movie is one big watery chase with the sheriff and his posse tracking jim and his gang , who are in turn after tom .  along the way , tom picks up a love interest in the person of a crucifix-weapon wielding woman named karen , played in a totally wasted performance by minnie driver .  the action sequences are repetitive and without much interest .  they do feature lots of explosions and gunfire to keep you awake .  christopher young's emotionless score for the film has a single trait , ear-shattering loudness .  the plot holes are as big as the ones in the dam that breaks , submerging the town .  the characters have an infinite number of bullets and rarely do they have to bother reloading their guns .  the weapons and the ammunition spend most of the time under water or being rained on but always fire perfectly .  when one of the bad guys drops a gun into the water , it stays in the same place until much later when tom swims to get it , even though the swift water is so strong it is uprooting large trees .  counting these improbabilities is one of the more enjoyable ways to spend your time as you wait for the characters to kill each other .  the show has a single , but unprintable , good line .  betty white plays an incessantly bossy wife , and , when her hen-pecked husband finally told her off , our audience roared with laughter .  the show concludes with a sickening set of twists .  the best that can be said of the picture is that it is merely stupefyingly awful as opposed to laughably bad .  hard rain runs 1 : 37 .  it is rated r for violence and would be fine for teenagers .   ( the two families behind us shockingly had a half-dozen preschoolers among them . ) 
pos@  " well this is not mission : difficult , mr . hunt , it's mission : impossible .  difficult should be a walk in the park for you . "  ---agent swanbeck ( sir anthony hopkins ) , the series' new agent phelps , takes ethan hunt ( tom cruise ) down a notch .  a russian scientist ( rade serbedzija ) has created a new virus ( and its antidote ) called chimera that destroys its host within twenty hours of injection .  a rogue imf agent , sean ambrose ( dougray scott ) , wants to use the disease and cure to blackmail a pharmaceutical company into selling him enough stock to make him owner of the company ( he knows it will soon be worth its weight in gold thanks to the outbreak of the virus he is going to cause ) .  posing as ethan hunt , ambrose gains the confidence of the scientist long enough to get only the cure , not realizing that the scientist had injected himself with the virus to prevent exactly what ambrose was trying to do .  the real ethan hunt is called in from his vacation to persuade beautiful thief nyah nordoff-hall ( thandie newton ) to assist the imf team in retrieving the stolen goods .  ethan and nyah fall quickly in love , but ethan soon finds himself in a real dilemma when he learns that his new love has only been hired because she was a former lover of ambrose's .  reluctantly , he sets up nyah to be rescued from prison by ambrose so she can infiltrate his compound and send back intelligence to the team .  ethan must race against time to keep ambrose from obtaining and spreading the virus and prevent any harm from coming to nyah .  although the first mission : impossible film was a moderate box office success , audiences panned it because they felt the plot was too confusing and there wasn't much action ( although being a fan of the series both old and new , i thought the movie was pretty decent and especially gutsy to make phelps a bad guy ) .  that problem has been rectified in the sequel by making the plot more accessible ( courtesy of one of the writers of the previous entry , robert towne ) and by turning the film into one gigantic action set piece under the steady hand of action film guru john woo .  the end result is one of the most entertaining ( yet simple ) action films made in a long while .  unfortunately , the first forty minutes or so are relatively slow , dwelling mainly on ethan and nyah's quickly blossoming romance and seeming more in place in a james bond film than with the less glamorous mission : impossible tv series .  ethan's conflict is a compelling one , but it seems very rushed ( and comes about because of a near fatal car wreck that ethan himself causes ! ) .  john woo handles all of this with an artistic flair that seems out of place , featuring a great deal of slow fades and dramatically framed close-ups .  the surreal nature of these sequences are distracting and ultimately a detriment to the film .  thankfully though , at the point ambrose discovers nyah's deception , mission : impossible ii becomes very entertaining and action-packed .  robert towne's screenplay takes some of the conventions set up in the first film and parodies them during a sequence where ethan must break into a high-rise building and retrieve the remaining specimens of the virus .  after that , the action scenes just begin to build in intensity , as is the case with many of woo's previous high-octane films .  the final half hour is an all out assault of action ( a good deal of which is ruined by the trailer , unfortunately ) .  as far as summer entertainment goes , mission : impossible ii is serviceable fare .  anyone looking for hardcore action won't be disappointed ( except for during the first half of the film , perhaps ) .  even if you weren't a fan of the first film , this entry deserves some checking out .  [pg-13] 
neg@ the swooping shots across darkened rooftops suggest a very tim burton movie , but , alas , no caped crusader descends to save * this * film .  instead , it's a skeletal housemaid ( julia roberts ) who must bear witness to this unfortunate retelling of " dr .  jekyll and mr . hyde . "  for a few , fleeting , maddening moments , director stephen frears ( dangerous liaisons ) gets everything just right-- the tone , the colors , the characters ; all the ingredients to make a most-powerful potion out of valerie martin's best-selling novel .  yet it fizzles too quickly ; the volatile mixture losing potency from the very first scene .  casting is a large part of the problem .  the story all but collap- ses around ms . roberts-- she doesn't have the range for this kind of drama .  her accent also comes and goes , though it's nowhere near as glaring as the total lack of chemistry between her and co-star john malkovich .   ( he looks the same in both of his roles-- an incredible fact that's missed by everyone in the story ! )  the very british supporting cast-- including michael gambon and george cole-- gives credibility to the smaller parts .  glenn close also appears as a madam that the good doctor calls upon .  her performance is as close to intentional camp as the movie ever gets and-- as a bonus-- offers a likely peek at her upcoming cruella de ville in the live-action 101 dalmantions .  the biggest botch in mary reilly is suspense : there is none .  no terror , no tension ; nothing .  without any weight , wit , or wonder to propel the story , the viewer is left with little more to do than pay attention to the period detail , a few buckets of blood , and stuart craig's fabulously dreary production design .  all of which gets old after about an hour , at which point i recommend leaving .   ( the pacing in the second-half is especially abominable .  if you * do * stick it through , your sole reward is a half-hokey special effect depicting the infamous transformation . )  mr . frears reportedly recut his film several times , missing several release dates in the process .   ( obviously , no one advised him to throw up his hands and just turn the whole damned thing over to mel brooks .  blucher ! )  mary reilly is the second robert louis stevenson story of the month , after muppet treasure island .  perhaps mr . frears should consult with brian henson on future projects .  i daresay that even ms . piggy is a better choice for a certain roles than julia roberts .  and she does have a great chop ! 
pos@ the happy bastard's 30-second review  big daddy  happy gilmore as a father ?  of course !  that's the latest scenario presented by adam sandler in the new movie big daddy , a movie that's passable but isn't really considered some of sandler's best work .  he doesn't actually play happy gilmore in the movie , but a variation of him .  he's sonny coufax , a man who's living off a settlement he got for a cab running over his foot and his one-day-a-week gig as a tollbooth man ( tollbooth willie ? ) .  his girlfriend ( kristy swanson ) is fed up with his lifestyle and demands a change before she leaves him .  enter a 5-year old kid , who's mysteriously dropped at his doorstep and intended for his preppy roommate ( jon stewart ) , who's off in china on a business trip .  from there , coufax basically acts as the kid's father , teaching him different things like peeing on the side of a building and tripping up skateboarders with sticks .  he even manages to use the kid in a sort of con game to get the attention of a beautiful law office worker ( joey lauren adams ) , but , somehow , he also garners the attention of social services , who aren't particularly pleased with coufax's actions , as he pretends to be his roommate to keep the kid .  the reason i say it's not really sandler's best work is because it gets really sappy towards the end of a movie , showing some odd feelings that somehow didn't really belong in a sandler vehicle .  i mean , it fits the movie's tone and everything , and sandler handles it well , but it's just oddly placed , that's all .  fortunately , it doesn't destroy the goofy glee path it's been following and it still makes you feel good .  sandler does a good job here , as he does in most of his movies .  rob schneider , however , is irritating as his friend , an immigrant delivery boy who can't read .  stewart , in his minor time on screen , is great , and adams remains a joy to watch .  look for steve buscemi as well as a homeless bum .  he's a hoot .  directed by dennis dugan ( director of happy gilmore ) , the movie remains a good couple of hours to pass the time with .  again , there are faults , but , hey , everyone needs to get emotional sometimes . 
neg@ my giant is two movies for the price of one , but neither is worth the cost of admission , even if you get in free .  as lamely directed by michael lehmann , the picture tries to be a comedy by using and reusing every giant joke in the book .   ( " without goliath , david is just some punk throwing rocks . " )  languidly paced throughout , the movie becomes increasingly lugubrious as the screenplay by david seltzer ( the omen ) meanders toward its sad ending .  since it's rarely funny or convincingly dramatic , what the filmmakers thought they were doing remains a mystery .  other than a few nice visuals , there's nothing to recommend the picture .  with great film comedies under his belt from when harry met sally ? to the original city slickers , billy crystal has shown that he's more than the world's best oscar host .  he does , however , have a propensity for choosing hopeless material as in last year's father's day and this year's my giant .  one wonders if he reads the script before agreeing to go ahead with a project .  surely reading the one for my giant would have shown that there was nothing there .  perhaps he thought he could ad lib it into success .  or maybe he wants to be a dramatic actor and thought he could do something serious with the movie's somber tone .  the most charitable thing that could be said about it is that it is so ineffectual that people will probably forget they saw it by the next day .  this one-joke movie's single idea is to place real-life basketball player gheorghe muresan , who stands seven and a half feet tall , into as many visually striking situations as possible .  sammy ( crystal ) , an agent currently without clients , is rescued after a car accident by a sweet romanian giant named max ( muresan ) .  after throwing out constant one-liners ( " either god is in the salvage business or big foot just took my car . " ) ,  sammy decides to get serious , seeing max as his meal ticket .  and although he doesn't like it , he's willing to sign max up to do disgusting events like a wrestling match with a half-dozen dwarfs .   ( the movie itself knows no bounds as it contains one of the most putrid and lengthy vomiting scenes ever . )  after a series of missed opportunities , the comedic part of the movie is over , and it turns into a cheap and maudlin disease movie .  we learn that max's condition is terminal , and he will soon die .  to be fair , the movie does contain a few good scenes - all of which you can see in the trailers .  let's hope billy gets himself a pair of reading glasses before he signs up for another movie .  my giant runs too long even at just 1 : 37 .  it is rated pg for violence and profanity and would be acceptable for kids around ten and up .  my son jeffrey and his friend matthew , both 9 , gave the movie a single star and had nothing good to say about it .  matthew pointed out that it " is not as good as it could have been or should have been . "   ( amen . )  he went on to comment that he did not like the way the movie changed completely in the middle .  jeffrey complained particularly about how gross the movie was . 
pos@ it's tough to really say something nice about a type of person who's so ethnocentric that any humanity they once had is now gone , but by god , " american history x " does it , and for that , i commend it .  it not only takes balls but intelligence to make a human being out of a neo-nazi skinhead , a kind of person who dedicates their lives to hating anyone who's not what they are , and this film wisely and miracurously pulls it off .  the subject of this film is one of them , but he is worse than one of the blind followers that make up most skinhead members since he is the leader of the pack .  he's the one who instigates them to take a firm grip onto their rage , and then in another brilliant stroke , justifies it with political propoganda that makes eerie sense when he speaks .  he's so utterly convincing as a public speaker and so firm in his convictions that it comes as a shock when he actually goes through the rehabilitation process .  his name is derek vinyard , and he's played by edward norton with so much fire and intensity that when he speaks he's almost as convincing and arresting a public speaker as , say , malcom x . when we first see him , he's clean shaven , with a jet black swastica emrboidered on his left breast , a devlish goatee , and he's attacking the black carjackers outside of his house dressed in nothing but his white boxers and carrying a handgun in his hand that never seems to run out of bullets , at least when he doesn't need them .  he so believes in his convictions that he's willing to put his beliefs to the test , even if he knows it will mean a stop in prison , if only for a couple years .   " american history x " is about derek , how he became a neo-nazi skinhead , how he rose to power , how he was rehabilitated in prison after murdering two black men in a fit of rage that was less to do with the stealing of his car and more to do with proving himself , and how he tried to save others , namely his younger brother , from making the same mistake .  we see him at all of these stages - as a smart teenager , a vicious hate monger , a man having an epiphany , and the man who tries to correct what he's done before - and in all of these , we get a portrait of a man from all sides .  or at least , that's the intention .  the film's framing device is his brother , danny ( edward furlong , perpetually looking about 13 ) , also now a skinhead , and how his principal , bob sweeney ( avery brooks , who i just found out was or is the captain on star trek's deep space 9 ) , is trying to " correct " him .  when the film opens , danny has just written a book report on " mein kampf , " landing him in trouble with sweeney , which causes him to make him write a paper on derek's life and how it has gotten him nowhere .  coincidentally , this day is the day derek is released from prison , and when we see him , he's cleaned-up , not as buff , and has a full head of hair .  he's just as intelligent , but still very rough along the edges , but he's wisened up .  he's no longer controlled by his anger at blacks and jews , and tries to persuade danny , who's becoming what derek was before , to give up his lifestyle .  but danny won't .  he goes to a large skinhead beer bash , meets with the skinhead leader ( stacy keach ) , and then discovers that derek is as opposed to neo-nazi-dom as he was for it a couple of years ago .  the film circles around this , then spins off into non-linear flashbacks , all done in black and white .  we mostly see derek at his prime as a skinhead , living in venice beach , organizing vicious and quasi-sadistic raids on local stores that no longer hire the white , middle-class teenagers since they can easily get cheaper illegal immigrants to do the same work , and mouthing off his theories on affirmative action and how illegal immigrants and blacks have destroyed the fundamentals this country was built on .  to them , the white man is the one who has gotten the fuzzy end of the lolipop , and he not only speaks elloquently , forcefully , and intelligently , but he backs everything up with political reasons , justifying their rage at least to them .  and frighteningly enough , much of what he says sounds true .   " american history x " is a collection of really great scenes and moments , rather than a cohesive , great film that flows effortlessly from one moment to the next .  in it , there are some of the best scenes i've seen all year .  one scene features a dinner between derek's family , and his mother's newest boyfriend ( played with reserve by eliott gould ) , a jewish liberal who quietly disagrees with derek's rightist views , launching the scene into a fit of rage and anger that builds unparalled emotions in the audience ( gould's reaction to derek's final summation is unnerrving ) .  another scene uses humor and traditional macho sex talk to build a friendship and a nice connection between derek and a black co-worker ( guy torry ) while folding laundry in prison .  and another soon-to-be-classic is actually divided in two : the murder of the two black men that winds derek in jail , which contains a final murder so nasty that it may be the most revoltingly shocking all year .  there's much more to appreciate , like the acting , which is uniformly good , with stand-outs coming from avery brooks , beverly d'angelo ( as the long-suffering mother ) , and gould ( who has one horrible line , but other than that , comes off with the best performance he's given in what seems like a really long time ) .  norton walks off with the film , though , coming off with such intensity that he reduces anyone not doing an adequate job to rubble .  in only the fifth movie of his career , norton has invented himself as one of the most reliable and intense actors of his generation , and maybe the best .  there's nothing like it when norton really gets rolling in this movie , spewing out lines with such authority that he commands all attention from the audience , coming off with power similar to that of a young maron brando .  that he allows the little emotions to seep through is amazing .  sadly enough , this isn't going to be the great portrait of racism that it perhaps hopes to be .  it's too unambitious and even a little contrived to really take off as either a powerful statement or an emotional masterpiece .  the ending , especially , is pencilled in from other movies , tossed in just so the emotional keyboard can be trounced upon .  some of the skinheads are reduced to mere cliches ( kevin smith regular ethan suplee fairs rather annoyingly as the " fat skinhead , " whose lines consist without fail of expressing his desire to eat more ) , and even the dramatic arc isn't as well travelled .  furlong's danny never seems to really be learning a lesson , since the flashbacks refuse to show his point of view , and when he decides to make a change by the end ( which was inevitable ) , it doesn't seem like it has actually arrived there .  even derek's descent into skinhead-dom doesn't seem justified .  though his fireman father ( william russ , the dad from " boy meets world , " and don't ask me how i know that ) is killed by a black junkie , and even before he spoke against affirmative action intelligently , there never seems to be any real back story why derek became so intense about his beliefs .  as such , one can see why the director , tony kaye , wanted to have his name removed .  sorta .   " american history x " is a very good movie , and i was very moved by it , but it could be a lot better , and the problem seems to be that the cut as it is is not up to what he claims to be his potential .  somewhere , he claims , there lies a tony kaye cut , and that was to be the true cut until it was viewed by norton , who then ordered another cut , and that is thus .  although he aimed for the directing credit to go to " alan smithee , " the resident name for any film that is to be disowned by its director , it wasn't allowed to him , under the grounds that once you disown a film , you can not badmouth it ( but really , that's the macguffin - no one really wanted a film this good to be given the alan smithee sign of disapproval ) .  kaye's right in that it's not up to par , even if he's not referring to normal par but rather his own personal par .  this will not be a " do the right thing " for the late 90s .  yet it still gets its point across intelligently , and backs it up with its story ( its message , that one cannot be so enwrapped in one's own beliefs or pain and suffering will occur , is literally said over the narration , unfortunately ) .  and even if it isn't perfect , at least when avery brooks turns to norton after he has been beaten and raped in prison , and asks him if anything he's done has made his life any better , it realy hits a nerve , not only in derek , but also in the audience . 
neg@ there's a scene early on in " jawbreaker " where a character utters the unintentionally prophetic line , " that is * so * not funny " .  how right she was .  this pathetic tale of three high-schoolers who accidentally kill their best friend in a birthday kidnapping prank gone horribly awry is never even remotely funny .  or fun .  or original .  not content with the too-obvious " heathers " heisting , the filmmakers proceed to lift freely from a staggering variety of sources , including " carrie " , " bride of frankenstein " , " blue velvet " , and even shaw's pygmalion , itself recently remade as " she's all that " .   " jawbreaker " is a pastiche , and not even an enjoyable one .  i find it extremely telling that the most engaging part of the film is the credit sequence , a jawbreaker factory montage inexplicably backed by veruca salt's " volcano girls " ; serving as a blueprint for the rest of the film , the song has absolutely nothing to do with the footage we're watching .  just close your eyes and pretend you're listening to an alt-rock station ; you won't be missing anything .  the blame for a mess this big has to be spread around among the principals .  rebecca gayheart , following roles in " scream 2 " and " urban legend " , should have known better than to take yet another role in yet another teen body count movie .  pam grier has totally wasted any credibility she might have gotten from her role in quentin tarantino's " jackie brown " .  and rose mcgowan should just quit acting .  she has no charisma , no presence , and no acting skills other than rolling her eyes and looking disaffected .  mcgowan manages to be upstaged by her real-life boyfriend , rocker marilyn manson , whose fifteen second role here is far more interesting than anything any of the " real " actors are doing .  manson , sans trademark makeup & contact lenses , and with an obviously fake moustache , looks eerily like nicholas cage ; who woulda thunk it ?  that crack about direction by committee wasn't merely a pithy sound-bite .  stylistically , thematically & narratively , " jawbreaker " is all over the map , varying wildly in tone & content from scene to scene .  though credited solely to writer/director darren stein , one gets the feeling that no two scenes here were actually guided by the same hands .  if stein was indeed responsible for the whole of this atrocity , someone needs to get the man some drugs , pronto .  prozac , lithium , kava , ritalin , something , anything .  he's quite obviously in desperate need of chemical help .   " jawbreaker " is a monumental waste of effort and resources , and quite likely one of the single worst films i've ever seen .  to call " jawbreaker " garbage would be to insult garbage .  bad flicks for the rest of the year are safe ; i've already got my pick for worst film of '99 .   " jawbreaker " runs approximately 90 minutes , though it feels longer than " titanic " , and is rated r for language , sexual situations and graphic violence .  not recommended for kids , teens , or anyone else . 
pos@ kadosh means sacred in hebrew .  amos gitai's fictional work , after spending most of his career doing documentaries , is a grim story about a failed hasidic marriage , even though the marriage is a loving one .  the marriage will symbolize the clash of cultures in modern israel between the native israeli's modern viewpoint toward religion and the political savvy hasidic's intolerable one , as both groups are vying for control of the secular government .  gitai ( devarim/yom yom ) is a labor party leftist , who believes that if the rigid hasidic ever got control of the government , it would sound the death knell of israel .  the emphasis of the film is on how the ultra-orthodox jews of that sect live by the letter of the torah in everything they do and how they subjugate the women to accept their vision of god's law from only the male's view .  that if they ever got control of the country , their intolerant attitude would subjugate the country the same way the women are .  the story takes place in jerusalem's jewish quarters called mea shearim , where we are taken down sinewy back streets with placards pasted on the walls , and into the crowded apartments and prayer rooms where the protagonists live out their idea of the proper jewish life , which is much different than the way most jews live in israel .  this is a controversial film , in that the women are unhappy and the male attitudes are to such an extreme patriarchal ones , that the film is bound to anger most viewers , no matter their belief .  it is a slow-moving , meticulous film , that grabs hold of you by the collar and never lets go .  the force of what is seen , though filmed in an objective manner , never taking a cheap shot at the hasidim , is nevertheless bound to leave questions about the nature of such a practice of strict observance .  the film is meant to be critical of such a rigid people , as it implies how they kill the spirit of everything they touch and with their extreme phobic attitudes , it makes it impossible for them to unite the country when they can't at present live in harmony with their own people , and it would be even more impossible to imagine them living with their arab neighbors in peace .  the film opens as meir rises at dawn and goes through his prayer ritual , where every prayer is made to the virtues of god .  he even thanks god that he didn't make him a woman .  his wife rivka accepts the fate she was born into and looks at him from the next bed where she sleeps separately according to hasidic custom .  she looks at him with glistening eyes , not questioning the laws or rebelling against her secondary role and how her religion keeps her from studying the talmud and having all the modern conveniences of life , and from seeing movies and tv .  meir is a talmudic scholar .  his father ( abu warda ) is a rabbi at the yeshiva .  he has been married for ten years and his wife has not been able to give him a child .  since the hasidim look upon a woman's role in life being only to conceive children , and cook and clean house for the man , while the man's role is to spend his time in prayer , therefore there is an insurmountable problem in this otherwise loving marriage .  she receives an anonymous letter that states " a woman without a child is no better than dead . "  meir's response , is that it is written like that in the talmud .  meir's father tells him that the marriage contract must be broken : " a man who dies without progeny rips a page from the torah . "  all the blame is placed on rivka , who is thought of as unpure as the reason for her being barren .  she will go through countless ritual baths to cleanse herself , as her rigid mother ( koenig ) dunks her in the holy water and says a ritual prayer for the 12 times she is dunked as an homage to the 12 tribes of israel .  their religion doesn't permit them to be examined extensively by a doctor .  rivka goes on the sly and finds out that it is her husband who is sterile , but she cannot tell him that because of their religion .  so when meir's father chooses a younger woman for his son , she is exiled to live alone in a cold apartment in the same jewish quarters .  rivka's spirited younger sister malka does not want to get married but wants to live a more liberated life .  she has a long time romantic relationship with a fellow hasidic yaakov .  but , because of the way they were both raised , she is still a virgin .  when yaakov joined the israeli army to fight in lebanon , something his sect is not allowed to do , he is thereby banished from the sect even though he is still a believer .  he now works as a singer in a nightclub .  malka's mother is worried that her daughter won't get married , so she arranges with the rabbi for her to marry yossef , someone whom she doesn't love .  yossef is a very stern follower of the order , he is also a political activist who drives around the city in a sound-truck with a bull-horn urging jews to stick together and fight their godless enemies .  the two sisters are close and languidly discuss their options , with rivka telling her sister to accept the marriage , it will make her happy ; but , while malka is reluctantly forced into accepting it , she has other plans to ruin this bogus marriage .  the harshest scene in the film is on malka's wedding night .  yossef prays to god for a child and then robotically gets malka to spread her legs , and without the least bit of affection , only a nervousness shown on his part for the function he supplies , as he goes inside her and rams her hard , thrusting away until the act is completed and then retiring without a word or gesture of love .  the sisters have choices , like everyone else in life does .  but the choices are obliterated by one's beliefs , circumstances , and inward nature , and how difficult it is to carry out those choices if it goes completely against the way one is brought up .  for the sisters , the choices are life or death ones .  gitai by closing in on the daily rituals , tight living quarters and close-knit community , has shown how difficult these choices are for those who have never seen another world and have been kept in the dark all their life .  the film ends with the forlorn malka walking atop of jerusalem and looking down upon it as an outsider would , and everything seems strange to her , all the things she once thought of as being set in stone are now harsh memories , as she has made her choice , and the price of that choice is very heavy indeed . 
neg@  " battlefield earth " is the best comedy of the year .  it has to be .  the other prospect is just too horrifying to consider .  bad movie syndrome struck me again , so after witnessing how much " battlefield earth " has been proclaimed a train wreck in both critical and popular circles , i felt the masochistic urge to see the disaster first-hand .  is it as bad as advertised ?  oh yes , very much so .  the plot is incomprehensible .  the acting is atrocious .  the special effects are mediocre .  the action is dull .  the implausibilities are legion .  the dialogue is cringe-inducing .  the whole package is funny when it wants to be serious and irritating when it wants to be funny .  i don't even want to continue reviewing this movie ; i'd like to purge the atrocity from my mind as soon as possible , but you probably want to read my thrashing in all its sarcastic glory , so here it is :  the premise is basically a rip-off of " planet of the apes , " only minus the apes and philosophical discussion , and plus a race of evil aliens from the planet psychlo .  the year is 3000 , the psychlos have conquered earth , and the human population has been enslaved .  only a handful of humans escaped to radiation-rich areas to escape the aliens ; they live out their lives in fear .  one man , johnny goodboy ( i know , i know ) tyler ( barry pepper ) , ventures to the outworld and is captured by the psychlos .  there he confronts the psychlo head of security : a big , ugly , klingon-looking creature called terl ( john travolta ) .  pressed into slavery , johnny vows to lead a revolution and take the planet back .  meanwhile , terl is faced with his own problems : he has recently learned that he's stuck living on earth ( which he hates ) for the rest of his career because he pissed off his boss by sleeping with the big man's daughter .  he decides to give johnny knowledge of the psychlo language and technology ( this is where the plot gets ridiculous .   .   . )  so the " man-animal " can lead a mining expedition into places the psychlos can't go .  terl then plans to keep the mined gold for himself .  of course , his plan doesn't work .  so many things wrong with this movie -- where to begin ?  how about with travolta , whose hollywood clout brought about this , the cinematic version of scientology guru l . ron hubbard's sci-fi novel ?  early previews for " battlefield earth , " with constant shots of a makeup-laden travolta cackling like lex luthor , had me ( and several audience members ) remarking , " what the hell is travolta thinking ? "  the movie did nothing to stem such remarks .  all that ridiculous cackling he did in the trailers is in full force here : terl cackles after nearly every line , and so does every other psychlo .  of course , this makes every scene hilariously overwrought , no more so than when the script clumsily stumbles into political commentary .  the psychlos are probably supposed to be some kind of satire of corporate america , but ceos generally don't laugh maniacally after denying pay raises to their employees .   ( " you were going to be promoted -- but now you're not !  fwahahahahahahahaha ! ! ! ! ! " )  it's no big surprise terl loses to the humans -- he's an idiot .  he breaks every kind of supervillain rule in the book .  he underestimates his enemies , assuming he'll win just because he's smarter .   ( he uses the word " leverage " like some sort of scientologist mantra . )  not content to go the james bond villain route of explaining his plans to the hero , he hooks him up to a machine that gives him knowledge of all the psychlos' language and technology .   ( why this machine is even around in the first place is beyond me . )  he then appears shocked that johnny points a gun at him .  no wonder this guy never got his promotion .  the plot inconsistencies are too numerous to mention .  why do the psychlos build an earth base in which both they and the human slaves must wear little breathing apparatuses to survive ?  how come the psychlos are wasting their time mining for gold when the doors of fort knox are wide open ?  how in the world did all those fighter jets survive sitting in a hangar for 1 , 000 years ?  and how do all these previously brain-dead cavemen learn to fly them so quickly ?  there's a whole lot more to scratch one's head about in " battlefield earth . "  bring a scorecard to track the plot holes .  director roger christian shoots " battlefield earth " in the most distracting way possible , tilting nearly every shot sideways for no discernible reason .  all the characters appear to be standing on the walls , and it's awfully difficult to watch a movie when you must tilt your head just to watch ordinary passages of dialogue .  the action sequences are atrociously edited , every one turned into an endless slow-motion parade that drains all potential excitement .  are these things really so hard to construct ?  my respect for supposed " lightweight " action directors has grown by leaps and bounds after witnessing in " battlefield earth " how badly an action sequence can be shot .  this movie is an absolute headache .  it's not just the shot selection and editing ; the movie , quite frankly , makes no sense .  for most of " battlefield earth's " running time , i just didn't know what was happening .  it didn't have anything to do with me finding the events stupid or illogical ( though they certainly are ) -- i really had no idea what the hell was going on .  when i pieced the plot together later , it didn't look any better .  here's how much of a disaster this is : " battlefield earth " is already the worst movie of the year , and it's going to take something really , really inept to top it .  the only thing we can take comfort in about the film is that no one will be suckered into joining the church of scientology because of it .  in fact , i'd think that hubbard's cult would want to distance themselves from this bomb as fast as possible .  that'll teach me to give into bad movie syndrome again . 
pos@ wild things is a suspenseful thriller starring matt dillon , denise richards , and neve campbell that deals with all the issues ; sex , love , murder , and betrayal .  the setting of the film is a town named blue bay .  it consists of many swamps and slums and , on the other hand , rich estates owned by the town's different benefactors .  the film opens just before the beginning of a senior seminar at the town's ritzy , expensive high school .  it is here that we meet all of the core characters .  there's guidance counselor sam lombardo , police officers ray duquette and gloria perez , dark mysterious senior suzie toller , and the popular head cheerleader kelly van ryan .  we first see that all of the senior girls are smitten with the handsome guidance counselor , but none more than kelly .  throughout the first portion of the film we see how far kelly will go to get sam until she accuses him of rape .  shortly after , suzie , too , confesses that sam raped her as well .  this pushes kelly's sex craving mother , sandra , to stop at nothing until sam is convicted .  during the trial , kelly gives a teary confession of how sam raped her .  however , it is later revealed by suzie that sam never raped either of the girls , it was all a vengeful plan against the guidance counselor .  after sam is cleared , kelly's mother pays sam a very substantial amount of cash in order for him not to sue her .  it is then revealed that sam , kelly , and suzie were all in on it together .  it is here that the film starts to reveal just who is being honest with each other and who has their own hidden agenda .  matt dillon stars as sam lombardo .  sam is the kind of guy that every woman would like to sink their claws into , and sam obviously knows it and uses it to his own advantage .  he isn't the obvious best of actors , but dillon does give a convincing performance .  however , his talents seem to be rendered useless near the end of the film , making it look as though his character has lost all of his ethics and principles , although he never had many to start out with in the first place .  neve campbell , who most people relate to scream and scream 2 , plays blue bay outcast suzie toller .  suzie obviously has some serious issues to deal with which are obvious from her first scene in the film .  campbell is very successful with this character , adding the slightest bit of charm to a seemingly repulsive character and making her fun to watch .  playing kelly van ryan is denise richards .  kelly is your typical , rich , sexy , head cheerleader who thinks she can have any man she choses , like her sexpot mother sandra .  one of the most interesting things about this film is how it compares and contrasts the relationship between kelly and her mother .  denise richards , still hot off the press from starship troopers , gives the most interesting performance in the entire film .  in the beginning , kelly looks to be a paper thin character , but richards adds a little more spice and ultimately makes the character not only sexy , but dominating as well .  kevin bacon gives one of his fair performances as ray duquette .  this character looks to be one of the most boring , predictable in the film .  however , it is a relationship revealed between him and suzie that adds depth to his story .  still , the film doesn't seem to gain much from bacon's performance , only his name .  in the supporting cast , theresa russell plays the much oversexed sandra van ryan , daphne rubin-vega gives an unappealing performance as cop gloria perez , and bill murray shines as sam's lawyer , ken bowden .  hats off to murray for adding the perfect touch of comedy to the film .  although wild things was displayed by the press as being an erotic thriller , the eroticism , which is portrayed with good taste , is kept to a minimum and focuses more on the plot and the relationships between the characters .  this is truly a very good film worth seeing if your looking for a movie with a thick plot filled with it's share of twists . 
neg@ alexandre dumas meets hong kong action with newcomer justin chambers reprising the oft-played character of dashing swordsman d'artagnon in director peter hyam's adventure " the musketeer . "  for some reason that i may figure out later , i don't know why the time , money and effort were put into the making of " the musketeer . "  it may be that someone had the clever idea of combining the dumas characters and story with the current enamor with the action work of hong kong imports like this film's xin-xin xiong ( " once upon a time in china " ) and yuen woo-ping from " crouching tiger , hidden dragon . "  the result is a mix of genres that don't mesh well .  elements of the ritz brothers-style comedy ( for those few who remember that comedic troupe from the 1939 " the three musketeers " ) , the man with no name from " a fistful of dollars " ( d'artagnan demands that the bad guys apologize to his horse in a direct ref to the clint eastwood spaghetti western ) and hong kong action choreography are all utilized in the original script by gene quintano .  the result is an action flick that bears little resemblance to its source material while it makes contemporary that material in an effort to grab the " matrix " crowd .  alexandre dumas may well be rolling in his grave if he knows what was done to his classic oeuvre and characters .  the real problem with the " the musketeer " lies in the casting of the two lead , romantically intertwined characters , d'artagnan and francesca ( mena suvari ) .  chambers has the boyishly handsome good looks for the character , a la chris o'donnell , but lacks any onscreen charisma .  suvari has the doe-eyed , pretty looks as the chambermaid who has the ear of the queen , but she , too , does not have the chemistry to command the screen .  if " the musketeer " makes them any money , they should invest in acting lessons .  stronger performers may have helped to raise the bar on this one .  the supporting cast is , on the surface , impressive .  catherine denueve plays the queen of france and lends her character an air of royalty , dignity and humor , especially when she plays off of d'artagnan's mentor , planchet ( jean-pierre castaldi , who reminds of andre the giant in " the princess bride ) .  stephen rea looks good in the part of the conniving usurper cardinal richelieu , but is given very little to help flesh out his character .  tim roth is the kind of bad guy you love to hate as the cardinal's chief henchman , febre .  he is so bad he makes simon legree look like a boy scout .  the rest of the players , particularly the three musketeers aramis ( nick moran , " lock , stock and two smoking barrels " ) , porthos ( steve spiers ) and athos ( jan gregor kremp ) , are background fodder whose role is to come to d'artagnan's aid when needed .  peter hyam's does double duty as director and cinematography and may be too stretched to do both well .  a stronger hand at the helm could have helped the mediocre performances of the leads and better utilized his veteran thesps .  photography is straightforward action fare that goes through all the appropriate action flick motions - d'artagnan takes on a tavern full of thugs and bests them single-handed ; he fights a gang of febre's henchmen aboard a speeding coach to protect the queen ( with the obligatory branches hanging over the road ) ; he goes one on one with his lifelong enemy , febre , who murdered d'artagnan's folks years before .  it is all routine stuff .  the renowned wire work developed by the hong kong action masters is used to artificial effect as the players leap , defying gravity , up walls and from horse to horse .  it works in a sci-fi film like " the matrix " or in a classical fantasy like " crouching tiger , hidden dragon " but just calls attention to itself in " the musketeer . "  at one point i could swear i saw the stunt wire being used .  it did not make me a believer and i am very disappointed .  with a run time of 106 minutes it should have been more like 80 and i give it a d . 
pos@ billy bob thornton , who had a sudden rise to fame with 1996's sling blade after spending years as a virtually unknown actor and writer , is becoming one of the most versatile - and most accomplished - american actors around at the moment .  as jacob , the simple but at times very bright loser brother of bill paxton's hank , thornton gives a performance which should leave an indelible mark on all but the most hardened viewers .  three men , hank ( paxton ) , jacob ( thornton ) and their friend lou ( brent briscoe ) stumble upon a plane wreck which , upon closer inspection , yields a rotting corpse and a bag full of money .  jacob and lou want to pocket the cash .  hank , the smarter - and perhaps more naive - of the three , insists on leaving the money for the authorities to find .  eventually , they agree to keep the cash safe until the plane is found , and then split the money three ways .  things start going wrong , though , with greed and violence weaving their ways through their plan .  disaster is sure to strike .  director sam raimi , of the evil dead and darkman fame , has made an excellent and thought-provoking film , worlds away from the comic horror films which made his name .  while there are a couple of moments which might remind one of his earlier work , raimi has made an intelligent and mature departure which will hopefully be a sign of even greater films to come .  scott b . smith's screenplay , based on his novel ( which i haven't read ) is a fine example of escalating tension .  while it does remind one of danny boyle's shallow grave without the abundance of black humour , it keeps the drama that should really be a part of such a story on morality , or the lack thereof , found in a film with this subject matter .  alar kivilo's cinematography reminds one of joel and ethan coen's fargo , with the bleak , snowy landscape almost becoming another character .  danny elfman also does well with his moody , finely-written score .  if there's a flaw in the film , it's that it goes on for just a little too long .  just when we think that they are about to wrap things up , raimi and smith decide to let the film go on a little further .  while this isn't really a bad thing , it did become a little frustrating at times ( this may have been due to the fact that i had consumed a large sprite beforehand ) .  the performances are excellent , with the usually annoying paxton in fine form and bridget fonda giving a scene-stealing turn as hank's scheming wife .  this is an excellent showcase for thornton's fine skills as an actor and a great change in direction for raimi , who could very well have a career ahead of him as an accomplished director of dramatic films .  fingers crossed , though , that this doesn't stop him from making another evil dead sequel . 
neg@ if anyone had been able in 1983 to forsee a late-night cable show hosted by gilbert gottfried showcasing some of the worst films of the 80's , they'd agree d . c . cab is the quintessential " usa up all nite " movie .  it's one of those childish r-rated movies that kids would love but can't see until it's edited for tv .  it's also one of those pointless , almost plotless movies with hardly any laughs .  and , strike three , it pairs mr . t with gary busey .  i heard gilbert say d . c . cab had " an all-star cast , " but i'm still hoping there was some degree of facetiousness in that statement .  when third-billing goes to a two-minute appearance by famed flashdancer irene cara " as herself , " you can't say a damn thing about all-star casts .  likewise for token appearances by marsha " roz " warfield , paul rodriguez and " politically incorrect " host bill maher , before he was somebody .  appearing in d . c . cab pretty much had the opposite effect on everyone else , especially irene " i'm gonna live forever " cara .  d . c . cab is an ensemble comedy from joel schumacher ( who would go on to direct batman forever ) about a bunch of misfits who drive cabs .  you get the feeling if the police academy cadets had made a different career choice , this would be the result , except here you have such interesting characters as the " token white guy " ( busey ) who wants to get in tight with the blacks now before they take over the world , the token jive talker named tyrone ( charlie barnett ) who wears his hair in rollers and uses the word " honkey " as much as possible , the tough guy with the mohawk and gold chains ( mr . t -- a real stretch for him ) , the aspiring musician waiting for his big break ( maher ) , the mexican gigolo ( rodriguez ) , the woman who actually wants to drive cabs for a living ( warfield ) and the guy who wants to own a cab company for a living ( adam baldwin ) .  we've all seen dozens of bad comedies from the 80's .  some are fun to watch and some are actually funny .  this one is more or less neither .  you'd think plenty of comedic sparks would fly from the assemblage of talent ( whatever ) , but d . c . cab more or less falls flat on a continual basis , culminating in the usual contrived hollywood finale as baldwin is kidnapped and the other cabbies have to go to rescue him .  it's a shame no one was able to rescue this movie from the depths of stale jokes and unoriginality .  d . c . cab has rightly earned its position on " usa up all nite . " 
pos@ plot : a young man who loves heavy metal music and especially the band steel dragon , to whom he's devoted a tribute band in which he sings , gets launched into stardom when the real group get rid of their lead singer and call on him to take his place .  critique : i'm a sucker for movies like this .  a young man with a humble background and lofty dreams , works hard , devotes the time , the energy and the patience , and ultimately hits it big-time .  in the case of this film , our boy loves a certain heavy metal band and as luck would have it ( yup , luck always finds its way into these types of equations , although generally tied very closely to hard work ) , they need a new singer .  his entry and adaptation to the whole " rock 'n roll " lifestyle fills the rest of the film and is really fun to watch .  although i will preface this by saying that one thing that would definitely enhance your appreciation for this film is your own love ( or past love ) of heavy metal music and the whole scene around it .  metal was one of my first loves as a teen and even though the genre of music isn't that prominent anymore , i still check out my motley crue , twisted sister and anthrax cds every now and again .  that's not to say that you won't like this film if you don't like the music , but the music and live performances from the band , play a big part in the movie , and i for one , had a blast watching and listening to it all .  but the even greater draw in this film is the standout performance given here by mark wahlberg .  wow , hand this fella some major props , as he totally becomes this heavy metal geek/god ( incidentally , metal god was the film's original title , and a much better one if you ask me ) .  he is this movie and i was quite taken by his character pretty much the whole way through .  he came off like a regular guy with extremely passionate goals and work ethic , who was willing to do anything in order to fulfill his dreams .  aniston was also surprisingly good as the girlfriend ( and the romance angle between them was sweet ) , but she didn't pull me in hard enough during their emotional scenes .  i was also impressed by some of the " real " musicians who played in the film ( zakk wylde from ozzy osbourne , jeff pilson from dokken , stephan jenkins from third eye blind , blas elias from slaughter ) , but actor dominic west as kirk cuddy made the biggest impression among the band members .  it's to note that this film was based on a real-life tale of a young man who used to sing in a judas priest cover band and then went on to become their actual singer ( their original singer also admitted to being gay , as in this film ) .  just for the record , i'm certainly not recommending this film for its originality or surprise elements , since most of this stuff has already been covered in some way or another in other movies , but because it's a fun , uplifting , well-paced movie with a solid central showing by wahlberg and energetic live performances .  oh yeah , and for those who dig the " heavier " side of music , the soundtrack also rocks ! !  you see . . . dreams  can come true . . .  where's joblo coming from ?  almost famous ( 8/10 ) - blow ( 8/10 ) - boogie nights ( 9/10 ) - detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) - girlfight ( 6/10 ) - goodfellas ( 10/10 ) 
neg@ it seemed like the perfect concept .  what better for the farrelly brothers , famous for writing and directing comedies with offensive subject matter , than to make a movie about a guy with a split personality ?  it's exactly the sort of thing the brothers relish : poking fun at something serious ( in this case mental illness ) , throwing all care to the wind to get a laugh .  jim carrey's signed on too ?  even better .  the national alliance for the mentally ill even helped out by levying complaints against the brothers' new film before its opening , claiming it was misrepresenting the condition of split personality , labeling it incorrectly as " schizophrenia , " and so forth .  such a protest seemed like just the sort of thing that would , of course , only add more fuel to the farrelly brothers' fire , proving that some people just couldn't take a joke , and that the farrellys would be helping the more enlightened viewers to yet another dose of their brilliantly subversive comedy .  yes , it all seemed perfect , but one thing went wrong : their movie isn't funny .  it's not for lack of trying .  the farrellys utilize in " me , myself & irene " their most high-concept premise ever : carrey plays charlie baileygaites , a man who after being dumped by his wife for a midget limo driver , decides to bury all his aggressive feelings deep down inside and never release them .  this , of course , means all his neighbors exploit his entirely too-forgiving nature , making his job as a rhode island state trooper increasingly difficult .  soon enough , charlie's repressed aggression manifests itself into a second , independent personality named hank , a deep-voiced , boorish ogre unafraid of taking the assertive actions his predecessor had been unable to muster .  this guy isn't above crashing a car through the wall of the barber shop in which he's been insulted , or holding a little girl's head underwater because she refused to stop jump-roping in the street .  then things start getting lost in the most complicated plot the farrellys have ever attempted , and the film runs off its tracks .  some have suggested that this isn't a problem , because the farrelly brothers' brand of humor doesn't require plot to work .  they're wrong , of course : plot was greatly instrumental in building up the kind of rollicking comic energy that infused the farrellys' last effort , 1996's " there's something about mary . "   ( 1999's " outside providence " was technically an earlier project . )  the brothers' earlier film wasn't funny merely because it contained outrageous gags ( despite what some newsmagazine articles would have you believe ) , but rather because its most outrageous gags were entirely unexpected .  in " mary , " the farrellys managed several times to pull off a neat sleight-of-hand trick : they'd have you thinking the story was going one way , then reveal its real direction in delightfully surprising fashion .   " me , myself & irene , " by contrast , seems to have been made by folks who looked at " mary " and saw only the surface grossness , missing all of the subtle machinations that really made it work .  having been produced by the same guys who made " mary , " " irene " seems like an even bigger disappointment .  the brothers pile on the offensive humor , taking shots at race , midgets , albinos , mental illness , and all manner of bathroom jokes .  but they haven't come up with a way to make any of it fresh most of " me , myself & irene " comes off as rote , by-the-numbers , adolescent comedy .  the plot , with carrey forced to drive alleged fugitive irene p . waters ( renee zellweger ) , who's in more trouble than anyone knows , back to new york , has an ending that's entirely predictable from the get-go .   ( think charlie and irene will fall in love ?  yeah , me too . )  the farrellys then introduce scores of different characters , and none of them ever manage to do anything you haven't already expected them to do , no matter how outrageous their actions might be .  compared to the curveballs the farrellys are used to throwing , this stuff is almost entirely soft-tossed , presenting an obvious problem : when gross-out humor loses its shock value , it's no longer funny , merely gross .  the jokes that do work are milked over and over until their effectiveness runs dry .  take , for example , the subplot involving charlie's three black sons ( anthony anderson , mongo brownlee , jerod mixon ) .  the incongruity of it all is funny for a while , with three burly black men discussing higher math in ghetto language and white-bread carrey mouthing said language with an entirely too-pleasant smile on his face .  but by the end of the film , they're still doing the same schitck it hasn't been elevated to another , funnier level , and it hasn't been dropped either .  that's too bad , because it ceases to be amusing about halfway through .   " me , myself & irene " reeks of wasted opportunities .  there ought to be more focus on how other people react to charlie's new personality , and on how charlie deals with the consequences of hank's actions .  this doesn't really happen nearly every supporting character learns about charlie's condition early on , so they don't have any opportunity to be surprised by it .  the film throws what looks like a patented farrelly curve in a scene towards the midway point ( involving an albino companion charlie and irene pick up called , appropriately , " whitey " ) , but the script doesn't go anywhere with it , instead leaving the thread twisting in the wind before awkwardly tying it up during the climax .  jim carrey is a gifted comedian , both physically and vocally , but he's left with nothing much to do here except contort himself in a manner similar to steve martin in " all of me . "  it's a great showcase of flexibility and split-second role-shifting , but none of it is terribly funny .  carrey doesn't pull any stunts we don't expect him to pull , and the farrellys' script doesn't give him anything else to pull : the situations in which he must perform the role-shifting aren't set up in any meaningful way .  perhaps carrey can take solace in the fact that his supporting actors fare no better .  zellweger's irene is not a strong female lead mary in " mary " may have been part adolescent fantasy , but she was also intelligent and strong-willed .  irene is nothing in particular , as the film never makes clear whether she's ditzy , clever , or neither .  as such , she gives us nothing to latch onto as the only " sane " person in the film .  chris cooper is stuck playing exactly one note as a corrupt fbi agent , and his character is entirely too straight-laced for a movie like this .  he , like the others , does absolutely nothing unexpected .  after viewing the shapeless mess that " me , myself & irene " eventually dissolved into , i was stuck wondering whether or not the farrellys had outsmarted themselves .  maybe their kind of comedy can only work for so long until audiences get wise to it and stop being shocked .  but i don't believe it -- good filmmakers find ways of surprising their audiences even after people have grown attuned to their style .  if the farrellys are indeed good , smart filmmakers ( and i still think they are ) , they'll rebound just fine .  even after that happens , though , i'll still consider " me , myself & irene " to be a high-caliber misfire . 
pos@ armageddon , in itself , symbolizes everything that is wrong in modern filmmaking .  stories have been replaced with special effects ; character development gets overshadowed by bad dialogue ; plotting consists of a bunch of shit getting blown up .  armageddon is as stupid , as loud and as shallow as any movie you'll see come out this summer , or maybe even any other summer .  but i loved every freaking minute of it .  believe me , i'm just as shocked as you are .  hell , i don't even know why i went to see it in the first place .  the previews were so annoying that i predicted this was going to be the worst film of the year , or at least in the running .  i'm sorry , but " somebody dial 911 ! ! ! "  isn't quite the tagging that's going to sell a movie .  it isn't too wise either to market the film using the movie's stupidest lines ( " beam me up scotty " - yeah , that sure is great writing . . . ) .  i mean , let's face it ; armageddon's previews rival the truman show's as being some of the worst of the year .  neither of them even come close to doing their respective films justice .  of course , you all know the story .  when the earth is threatened with total annihilation via an asteroid the size of texas , nasa calls in the us's top oil drillers ( ! ) to go into space ( ! ) and implant a nuclear device eight-hundred and someodd feet into the asteroid ( ! ) .  in the coarse of all this mayhem , we are introduced to some interesting - and not so interesting - characters .  belonging to the former group is rockhound ( steve buscemi ) , a horny little womanizing genius who's always full of wisecracks , even when flying into space at a huge amount of g's .  also , there's the always cool-as-hell billy bob thornton as dan truman , the bigwig at nasa who recruits all the drillers .  he kind of reminded me of ed harris in apollo 13 , only without the intensity and great lines to deliver .  then on the flip side of the coin is the tired , contrived character of harry stamper ( bruce willis , who does the whole movie employing with annoying accent i can't quite place ) , the leader of the pack as well as liv tyler and ben affleck as the token lovers you must have in any summer movie .  basically , that's about it .  as i said , this is hardly a film about plot .  it's another summer blockbuster with plot points that are beyond unbelievable and dialogue and characters that are mostly completely wooden .  case in point : nasa doesn't know that there is even an asteroid on it's way until eighteen days before impact - huh ?  another example : at one point in the movie , two children are playing with toy space shuttles in front of a poster of kennedy .  how pretentious is that ? ? ? ! ! !  want another one ?  okay ; before the oil drillers blast off into space , one of them starts singing " leaving on a jet plane " , and soon , all the rest join in .  did michael bay attend the school of sappy filmmaking before he made this picture ?  but naturally , all this sappiness , melodrama and special effects accumulate to one bitchin' time at the movies .  and don't get me wrong - despite all of the things i found wrong with armageddon , i still very much enjoyed it .  so even if you don't win one of mcdonald's free tickets , it's still definitely worth checking out . 
neg@ here is a movie that sadly follows the hong kong-recipe of moviemaking and storytelling to the letter .  these kinds of movies are marked by an eye-opening sequence that introduces us to the main characters ; a life-and-death plot in which these characters become involved ; the inclusion of a host of inconsequential characters ; ridiculous subplots , and sunglass-wearing henchmen .  that is not to say that i don't like hong kong influenced movies ; however , it is quite obvious that these moviemakers haven't a clue that the american filmgoer needs more than hip-hop-talking thugs and stupid sight gags .  observe the opening sequence .  a band of hitmen are about to storm an apartment , led by melvin ( mark wahlberg ) and cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) .  they are waiting for their partner to cut off the power so that they can storm the apartment with the help of infrared goggles .  however , their partner is unsure of which cable to cut .  he is undecided .  this happens for about 10 seconds .  the audience finds some humor in his foolishness .  the lights suddenly go out .  cisco is surprised and says : " whoa . . . let's  go ! "  and they storm the apartment in a very nicely executed sequence .  the big hit of the title refers to a kidnapping that happens a quarter of the way through the film .  needing cash , cisco devises a plan to kidnap the daughter ( china chow ) of wealthy japanese industrialist jiro nishi .  however , the daughter is also the god-daughter of paris ( avery brooks ) , who is cisco's and melvin's boss .  infuriated and insufferable , paris commands cisco to uncover the mastermind of the kidnapping .  during his 'investigation' , cisco singles out melvin as the ringleader , and paris orders his capture and execution .  melvin must now find a way to stay alive .  by the way , do you know how the investigation takes place ?  cisco's partner makes the ransom phone call believing that his call will not be traced because of a trace buster that prevents tracing .  but , mr . nishi has a trace buster buster .  to counter that , cisco's partner has a trace buster buster buster .  but nishi has a trace buster buster buster buster .  and so on . . .  there is no doubt that this is an interesting world in which they live .  and there are lots of issues that we'd like to know more about .  how does melvin justify his profession to his fiancee ?  what goes on among this clique ?  why is cisco at odds with melvin ?  there is actually a lot of potential material that could have been explored , but it seems that no effort is made to go in that direction , and instead we are given a not-so-engrossing plot filled with one-liners , silly sight gags , extraneous sub-plots and tomfoolery .  and , i haven't even mentioned his financee's visiting parents who want them to separate , nor melvin's mistress , nor the pimple-faced video clerk demanding the return of an overdue video and on and on and on .  if the big hit signals the future of hong kong style movies that are made for american audiences , then shoot me now . 
pos@ i've noticed something lately that i've never thought of before .  pseudo- substance - hollywood faking deep meanings in their films .  have you ever seen a movie that you really enjoyed , then when you look back , you realize there was something missing ?  more and more , filmmakers seem to be putting out well rehearsed , melodramatic films that evoke strong connotations of being a great film , but if you step aside and reflect on your movie going experience , you may just discover nothing more than elegantly presented fluff .  i'm not trying to say city of angels is that bad .  it had a lot going for it , but somewhere along the way , it faltered .  somehow , underneath the seemingly poetic beauty of it all , there was a gigantic hole somebody covered with iridescent performances and glossy cinematography .  the predictable ending that shattered our hopes ( even though we saw it coming ) only added to the disappointment .  but for over an hour , city of angels is well worth the time .  nicolas cage is seth , a guardian angel who , like hundreds ( likely thousands or even millions ) of other angels , spends eternity watching over the citizens of mortality ; humans never aware of how much celestial intervention occurs in their life .  meg ryan , in her most subdued performance yet , plays maggie , a doctor who begins to ponder exactly who it is we're fighting against when we fight to keep someone alive .  after losing a patient on the surgery table , these questions envelope maggie , and seth , the angel who was there to oversee the patient's transition into the afterlife , is immediately captivated by the doctor .  he begins following and observing maggie , falling more and more in love with her everyday .  angels , who we quickly learn are not and never were humans , can not experience human sensations such as taste and touch , but they do have the ability to make themselves seen to anyone they desire .  seth's adoration is too much to resist , and eventually he does appear to maggie , quite regularly , although such a thing seems taboo among the angelic community .  the angels are interestingly presented , all of them dressed in black and more reminiscent of hitmen than traditional glowing white entities , but it's a nice touch that never seems like a mere attempt at uniqueness .  cage is a wonderfully versatile actor ( think face/off , raising arizona , and it could happen to you - what a combo ! ) who slips into the role of a heavenly agent quite nicely but threatens sappiness more than once .  it's nice to see ryan pick up roles like this and the one in courage under fire .  the two aren't very comparable to each other , but they both deviate from her usual " intelligently ditzy " romantic comedy roles , and it's an impressive side of ryan movie goers rarely have the chance to enjoy .  but even though the two leads do an impressive job , it is dennis franz who grabs us with his interpretation of a hospital patient who knows more than meets the eye .  it's a shame that with so much going for it , city of angels falters so much in its final stages , leaving us with the realization that an emotionally incredible movie was out there , they just didn't know quite how to get to it .  they struggle for an impacting conclusion and wind up with painful thud rather than an exhilarating high .  filmmakers should know your final impression will be the one you linger on , remember , and convey to others thru word of mouth , so after telling us for 60+ minutes that this film is a glorious masterpiece , they sure leave us with a disheartening taste of mediocrity in our mouths .  based on the german film wings of desire ( that being the english title , of course ) , city of angels is ninety percent success , enough to make most people forgive its shortcomings , even the devastatingly disappointing ending .  most movie goers , the non-cynics anyway , will be too wrapped up in the surreal atmosphere to give criticism to that which needs to be criticized .  nonetheless , city of angels is beautifully captivating , which is probably enough to satisfy those poetic viewers who will appreciate a delve into rich emotional territories . 
neg@ movie concepts are often pitched to producers with mathematical formulas involving successful films of the past .  so , undoubtedly one day someone said , " 'evolution ? '  it's 'ghostbusters' plus 'men in black' plus 'tremors . ' "  and so it is .  sum total none .  the alienbusting begins when a meteor lands in glen canyon , arizona .  community college science profs ira kane ( david duchovny ) and harry block ( orlando jones ) take some samples from the meteor and discover that one-celled organisms from inside it are evolving rapidly , doing in hours what took millions of years for life on earth .  just about the time i was wondering , " hey , doesn't the government usually come in and take over the whole area in these movies , " the government came in and took over the whole area .  the leader of the pack , gen . woodman ( ted levine ) , turns out to be an old nemesis of ira's , and ira and harry are blocked from doing further research .  meanwhile , the organisms continue to grow until they are large enough to start attacking people .  by this time , ira and harry have gained a friend in dr . allison reed ( julianne moore ) of the center for disease control .  a country club poolboy , wayne green ( seann william scott ) , has also attached himself to the merry band .  but can they find the means to stop the aliens in time ?  director ivan reitman seems to be revisiting his biggest hit , 1984's " ghostbusters , " but " evolution " falls miserably short .  one reason is readily apparent .   " ghostbusters " had three really funny guys as its scientists ( bill murray , dan aykroyd , and harold ramis ) , but " evolution " has one really funny guy ( orlando jones ) who can adlib and milk the comic potential of lines that prove useless in anyone else's hands .  for good measure , " ghostbusters " had the comic talents of rick moranis ; " evolution " offers seann william scott , who was much funnier in " american pie " and " road trip " than he is here .  scott has one amusing scene where he sings " you are so beautiful to me " to a dragon-like alien to draw it into a trap .  other than that , scott seems unable to make much of the thin material the writers gave him .  an actor in search of a forte , david duchovny looked for his gritty action hero side in " playing god " and his romantic side in " return to me . "  now he wants to find his wacky comedic talent ; what we all find is that he doesn't have any .  look for him to be back on tv in five years or so .  another sad case is julianne moore , who needs to be more selective about the offers she accepts .  she's a talented actress with an impressive list of credits and award nominations , so why is she trying to do slapstick comedy ?  her character has a tendency to trip over and bump into things , but the trait comes off as a pathetic plea for laughs .  the sole saving grace of the film is jones .  he's at the center of the movie's funniest scene -- where an alien bug invades harry's body and has to be pulled out through his ass .  jones is the only cast member who can take the comedic ball and run with it , but he can't carry the whole movie by himself .  he found himself in a similar situation in " the replacements , " where he was also the only comic talent in an ensemble cast .  jones will eventually find the project that will make him a major comedy star , but this isn't it . 
pos@ james jones , one of the major novelists from the middle of the twentieth century , has written a number of fictional works about the effects of war on the individual .  a veteran of world war ii , and a witness to the pearl harbor bombings , his novels are not only grounded in realism but poetic in nature .  they are reminiscent of stephen crane in their blunt eloquence , a trait which lends itself to razor-sharp focus .  but perhaps none matches the scope of his autobiographical novel , the thin red line ; now a cinematic masterpiece from director terrence malick .  the book's principal cast , some thirty characters , has been trimmed down for this rendition , but it still retains its most endearing value .  each of the roles has an everyman quality , emphasizing jones' examination of world war ii on the american soldier .  there's a definitive chain of command present , and this also plays on the motivations of the cast .  but most importantly , and perhaps intrinsic to the novel but not to the movie , a dynamic and effective voice-over is used .  malick has several characters relating their thoughts , giving the viewer a greater perspective of the issues at stake .  the issues at stake are many and one .  told from a limited third-person perspective ( as opposed to a top-down , omniscient view ) , the movie entails the struggle of an american infantry company ( " c-for-charlie " ) to take a hill during the conflict at guadalcanal .  the south pacific island is seen by the top brass as the key position for american armed forces to hold if they want to win the war .  and want to win the war they do .  in an excellent performance , nick nolte plays c-for-charlie's commanding officer , lt . col . gordon tall .  he's an aging soldier who embodies the win-at-all-costs mentality , if only to impress his superior ( john travolta , in a questionable cameo ) .  this philosophy is opposite that of captain bugger staros ( elias koteas ) , who dearly values the life of each and every one of the men under his command .  at the front are the privates and corporals ( adrien brody , james caviezel , ben chaplin , et al ) , lead by 1st sgt .  welsh ( sean penn ) , who must actually execute the suicide orders handed down to them .  the thin red line is filled with intense , visual poetry , but it's nearly three hours long .  although the interest level is high throughout the first two hours , the climax comes forty-five minutes before the end of the movie ; it goes without saying that the movie drags on the back end .  the thin red line will doubtless be compared to 1998's other masterpiece of war , saving private ryan a countless number of times .  but to do so is to belittle both films , for although similarities abound , so do differences .  director malick has a story to tell , and for those interested in listening , this can be a very outstanding movie . 
neg@ america's favorite homicidal plaything takes a wicked wife in " bride of chucky , " and their unholy matrimony is something old , nothing new .  the burning question on the minds of most moviegoers , however , has nothing to do with nuptial specifics or even how the movie stacks up , but rather whether or not the duo gets down and dirty on their blood-soaked honeymoon .  the answer is a sick-and-twisted yes - and viewers are treated to a shadowy glimpse of some hot-enough-to-melt-rubber ( or at least singe it ) lovin' .  guess they're anatomically correct .  chucky ( again voiced by brad dourif ) , of course , is the star of the " child's play " series , a my buddy-type doll possessed by the spirit of a slain serial killer .  in " bride , " the plot ( heh ) picks up with his girlfriend tiffany ( jennifer tilly ) resurrecting chucky's remains ( he was blown up at the end of " child's play 3 " ) with the help of a black arts manual called " voodoo for dummies . "  silly mortal .  before long , she's also been reduced to shin-high figurine status , and the plastic incarnations of these one-time lunatic lovebirds hit the road to scope out some potential new human bodies .  the rest of this rocky horror puppet show plays out as tiff and the chuckster stalk a young couple ( nick stabile and katherine heigl ) with conjugal plans of their own , leading them towards a new jersey grave where a magical , soul-transferring amulet allegedly lies in wait .  along the way , our murderous barbie and ken go through post-marriage motions similar to any given pair of newlyweds - bicker , argue , kiss and make up .  but when they squabble over who's going to do the dishes , watch out .  hey , even faux people have got to work through their problems .  director ronny yu keeps the mayhem flashy and stages an inventive scene or two , but not even visual flair can make up for the fact that these creepy kewpies are neither scary nor menacing .  when one of them charges , it's nothing a good forward punt couldn't take care of .  and when a climactic chase scene is needed , one of the dim-bulb protagonists must _pick_chucky_up_ so the demonic toy can force his hostage to run at gunpoint .  throw in some silly casualties and a ridiculous ending ( will " son of chucky " be next ? ) and this is a bizarrely bad 89-minutes at the movies .  as is the thing to do in post- " scream " slasher cinema , don mancini's screenplay slathers on the in-jokes and genre-parody .  but little of the humor succeeds , proving self-reference can be completely worthless when it lacks bite .  to be fair , though , most of " bride of chucky " is on auto-pilot , so it's not quite right to single out one misfired aspect of the film .  similarly shaky , the acting ranges from screeching camp to boring bland , the effects aren't that special and the story is one big groaner .  here's hoping chucky and his entire clan - past , present and future - rest in peace . 
pos@ this film is based on the campy tv show from the 1960's under the same appellation .  mind you , most people ( including yours truly ) who will see this movie will not have seen any episodes from the original series .  the movie is really a stand alone in that regard .  the family robinson . . . lost in space .  plot : set in the year 2058 , the family robinson is chosen to sail out into space in search of other planets that might contain the natural resources earth needs in order to survive its future .  a colonization process , if you will .  they are joined by able pilot west ( leblanc ) , and evil uninvited stowaway ( oldman ) , who does not want to see the trip conclude on a successful tip .  eventually , their trek goes awry , and all are " lost in space " .   " how do get back to earth ? "  is the question that infests the rest of this sci-fi epic .  critique : this film reminded me a lot of the fifth element ( 6 . 5/10 ) from the summer of 1997 .  it's a film with a lot of flash , but very little actual substance .  admittedly , there isn't an annoying character like chris tucker from the other film , but this film does run a little too long , and did lose me in regards to its complex time-travel / multi-dimensional story line .  having said that , the special effects in this movie were amazing , and the overall look and feel were also way above average .  you really felt like you were in the future , and riding through space with these poor souls .  unfortunately for this chosen family , their 10-year old son is the smartest one in the group , and the father is too wrapped up in his work to notice the rest of his family ( ever heard that one before ?  yawn ! ) .  the acting is ok , and i was especially surprised at the solid performance by tv friend's matt leblanc who shows us all that he's definitely more than just a pretty face .  on the down side , the family riff-raff that cuts through most of the picture is lame and time-consuming ( even though we gotta give them credit for " trying " to develop characters in a sci-fi pic ) , the story line is hard to follow , the evil character in the movie actually tells people that he's " evil " , and the movie goes on for about 20 minutes too long .  on the slick side , many of the special effects are really cool ( the sequence in which the family is " paralyzed " during the hyper-drive is awesome , and the animated monkey that joins the family halfway through the flic is mucho cool ) , the credit presentation at the end of the film is slamming , and the adventures that they fall into are somewhat thrilling ( i will also admit that " somehow " they got me to semi-tear up near the conclusion of this picture . . . . very  odd . . . . . ) .  overall , if you're a big sci-fi fan , check this movie out for the special effects and challenging narrative , and if you're not , i would still suggest seeing this movie , but then you could probably wait until it comes out on video so that you forward past some of the boring parts .  little known facts : this film will always be remembered as the movie that knocked titanic ( 7/10 ) out of the top spot at the box-office after 15 straight weeks at number one .  garry oldman is british , and was once married to uma thurman for about six months .  mimi rogers was tom cruise's first wife . 
neg@ and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time .  yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it .  oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . .  plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or  something along those lines .  critique : a complete and utter mess .  disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and  that's just the first thirty minutes !  this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself .  it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) .  the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it  just goes from one inexplicable situation to another .  one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s .  why ?  who knows .  what are they talking about ?  no idea .  flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! !  hullo . . . ? ! ?  confused yet ?  i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story .  random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ?  or were they in the present at that time ?  who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who  seriously cares !  this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it .  please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it !  even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one .  the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere .  and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ?  nope .  and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes ,  the man is not aging gracefully , is he ?  oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years .  the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near .  overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's  a living !  he's also very funny , not purposely though .  all in all , the movie stinks .  nuff said . 
pos@ american pie acknowledges a cold , hard fact that most movies don't : it is very difficult to get laid .  its four virgin heroes are jim ( biggs ) , a chronic masturbator , kev ( nicholas ) , who desperately wants to deflower his girlfriend ( reid ) , oz ( klein ) , a lacrosse player whose approach requires some fine tuning , and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) , a germphobe ( his crass nickname is hilarious , but i won't spoil it here ) who pays a classmate to spread rumours about the size of his member .  jim , kev , oz and finch attend a high school in suburban michigan full of so many impossibly beautiful women it's no wonder they're horny all the time .  after a party at their studly friend stifler's ( seann william scott , in the film's sharpest performance ) house leaves them sexually unsatisfied , the quartet make a pact : to " lose it " by graduation-specifically , prom night , which is only a few weeks away .  american pie is in the tradition of bachelor party or revenge of the nerds .  almost every conversation these characters have revolves around makin' whoopee .  all women are there to be ogled .   ( alyson hannigan's perky music student is the only memorable female of the bunch . )  situations abound that defy logic only to arouse and/or amuse its core audience , adolescent boys .   ( to arouse : nadia's ( shannon elizabeth ) internet striptease-an unexpectedly raucous ( and guiltily pleasurable ) sequence .  to amuse : jim's lusty encounter with a hot apple pie . )  what differentiates american pie from those dirty eighties comedies , aside from a very nineties obsession with bodily fluids * , is a cast that's light years more appealing than that of , say , just one of the guys .  two more standouts : klein and " sctv " 's eugene levy .  klein plays a kind-hearted athlete for the second time in a row , after alexander payne's underappreciated election .  i hope to see more of this warm actor with the disarmingly honest face very soon .  levy's is the most crowd-pleasing performance , and indeed , it's nice to see him back on the big screen in a role that makes wonderful use of that expressive brow .  american pie also wants to emulate the teen flicks your parents _would_ let you watch growing up .  it skillfully employs a broad mix of pop tunes , much like john hughes' movies did , and even pays homage to the breakfast club a couple of times , most evidently when the prom band covers simple minds' " don't you ( forget about me ) . "  the picture ultimately has a healthy , if obligatory , attitude towards safe sex-even at their most libidinous , american pie's protagonists first whip out a condom .  the filmmakers prove that socially responsible raunch is possible .  for its familiarity and for its charming leads , i recommend american pie , but the buzz on this film had me expecting something . . . fresher .  as far as the new teen cinema goes , it's at the top of the heap .   * don't say i didn't warn you about the party scene . 
neg@ ok , i admit it--i find camp amusement with the spice girls .  yes , the same spice girls of the gimmicky individual " identities , " they of the annoyingly infectious bubblegum pop hooks and cheesy unifying mantra of " girl power . "  but not even their guilty pleasure appeal isn't enough to carry their big screen debut , a junky mess which would be more aptly named shite world than spice world .  the film begins amusingly enough , with a cheeky 007-esque title sequence in which the british quintet-- " scary " ( melanie brown ) , " baby " ( emma bunton ) , " sporty " ( melanie chisolm ) , " ginger " ( geri halliwell ) , and " posh " ( victoria adams ) --are introduced one by one ( to , much to my surprise , excited and only slightly mocking cheers from the press audience ) as they croon the silky ballad " too much " ( a tune that would sound right at home in an actual james bond film ) .  a few minutes and an elton john cameo later comes an introductory tour of the numerous plotlines that run through the film : ( 1 ) the spicy ones go on a european publicity tour leading up to their first live concert at london's royal albert hall ; ( 2 ) a film producer ( george wendt ) and a screenwriter ( mark mckinney ) pitch various film ideas to the girls' manager , clifford ( richard e . grant ) ; ( 3 ) a documentary film crew follows the girls ; ( 4 ) a pregnant " mate " ( naoki mori ) of the group rapidly approaches her due date ; and ( 5 ) a tabloid publisher ( barry humphries ) attempts to destroy the group with the help of a sneaky shutterbug ( richard o'brien ) .  capped off by a live rendition of the girls' bouncy hit " say you'll be there , " a wealth of laughs and merriment is sure to follow , right ?  wrong . it's all downhill from there as spice world collapses into a series of misfired comedy sketches .  i must give the girls credit for their refreshing willingness to make fun of themselves , but writer kim fuller and director bob spiers can barely come up with a funny joke between them , much less a organized framework for all the " wacky " goings-on .  spice world jumps from vignette to vignette , subplot to subplot with no direction and little sense , at one minute having the girls meet with aliens ( no joke ) and at another having them stage a daring rescue of two young fans who fall into the water during a boat ride .  while a decent joke slips through the cracks here and there--during a " dance bootcamp " scene , the girls sing the lyric " we know how we got this far/strength and courage and a wonderbra " --much of the material is not even funny on the chuckle level .  some gags are just plain pointless , such as roger moore's recurring role as the mysterious chief , who dispenses cryptic , metaphor-heavy advice to clifford .  the only reason why i can think anyone would find that funny is the fact that moore once played james bond .  ha ha .  as weak as the script is , i think there's one insurmountable problem with even attempting to make a spice girls movie , and that is the girls themselves .  the point is not that they can't act ( and , for the record , they really _can't_ ) but that their individual personas , which works as a gimmick over the span of a four-minute music video , are too thin to survive outside of the truncated , video bite mtv world .  posh ( who garnered the most enthusiastic cheers during the introductions ) comes off best by default because her persona ( rich bitch ) most easily translates into character in a film .  baby's persona ( young innocent ) , to a lesser extent , also works , but the remaining girls' identities are a little harder to flesh out .  there really isn't much to do with sporty besides having her exercise every so often ( which is _exactly_ what fuller and spiers do ) , and , after all , what exactly entails being " ginger " or " scary " ?  apparently , just their wardrobes .  spice world manages to pick up some steam in the late going following a flashback performance of the spices' signature hit , " wannabe . "  the song is as grating as ever , but the energy of the number gives the proceedings a much-needed shot in the arm , setting the stage for a wave of self-referential humor stemmed from the screenwriters' film ideas ( the film almost mirrors robert altman's the player in the way the film snails into itself ) .  this section of the film , involving all manner of derring-do involving a speeding bus , is perhaps its most effective , but it also points up how all the other storylines ( the publisher , the documentary crew ) lack a satisfactory payoff .  spice world is harmless entertainment suitable for the entire family , and it will please the spice faithful .  but this sloppy enterprise surely won't win them any new fans , which is what the group sorely needs to bolster its rapidly waning girl power in the states .  once the hype disappears , spice world will likely serve as the the spices' final hurrah in america . 
pos@ with storytelling this compelling , who needs books ?  based on the book by author james ellroy , l . a . confidential is probably one of the best piece of work produced by hollywood in recent years .  together with director curtis hanson ( the hand that rocks the cradle , the river wild ) whom ellroy corroborated closely throughout the shooting of the film , resulted in a movie with a plot and and script so tight , an atom would have to squeeze itself through .  set in the 50s , the story revolves around 3 policemen of vivid personalities .  jack vincennes ( spacey ) is the cop who is more concerned on busting with fame and stardom ala hollywood style , concentrating heavily on work which will attract him media attention .  there is also the young hot-shot rookie , ed exley ( pearce ) , fresh out of the academy and all-out to carve a name for himself in the footsteps of his legendary cop father .  the tough and unnerving bud white ( crowe ) , a cop who believes in justice , the swift and violent way .  3 policemen , distinct in their characters and paths but all of them working in a place where there is no real distinction between good and evil .  when his partner is murdered on the day of his resignation , bud sets out to find the people responsible but unwittingly delved himself into something more than just a simple robbery murder .  even after exley receives a promotion for his work on the murder case , happenings began to link itself to the murder .  the 3 eventually reach a point of convergence when what actually began as a personal investigation turns out to be an uncovering of a complex web of organised-crime in hollywood .  the last time i remember a film so clever and compelling was when i watched the usual suspects .  in l . a . confidential , you do not get the shock and cleverness as the former but it has a lot more of `story' going for it .  there is not a single moment in the film in which i felt was slow at all .  surprisingly , though spacey did a very convincing job as the street-wise vincennes , the movie was carried mostly by the two rather `unknowns' , pearce and crowe .  pearce's exley is cool and calculative in his actions and there is a slight hint of val kilmer in his appearance .  crowe's bud white is the most impressive of all ; head-strong and temperamental , he should obtain some sort of recognition for his work here .  superb acting . , wonderful storytelling and one of the best climaxing gunfights ever .  easily the best hollywood piece for 1997 . 
neg@ there were four movies that earned jamie lee curtis the title of " scream queen " in the early '80s .  two of them were halloween movies , but the other two -- prom night and terror train -- were the uninspired knockoffs that came directly after the success of halloween .  the same " god , i'm scared , there's some guy in a mask coming after me " routine she did in john carpenter's classic , jamie lee copies here , with none of the urgency or suspense .  terror train takes place on ( where else ? ) a train , charted by some pre-med students finishing their first four years of higher education .  most of them won't make it to med school , though , and it's obvious from the foreshadowing done when the conductor complains , " i wish to hell they'd put a radio on that train . "  the conductor character probably has the most lines of anyone , even jamie lee .  from the beginning , he's talking his head off ( he tells one of his co-workers " think on this -- when's the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station ? "  as if it makes any kind of sense ) and it only gets better as he engages himself in an argument about the benefits of railroad over recreational vehicles .  of course , the loudmouth conductor is the first person to find a bloody body , which is then gone when he brings a skeptical trainman back to view it .  i forgot to mention the prologue .  it's a party three years earlier , with the same group of students .  two of them play a trick on a geeky frat pledge , promising him he's going to get laid .  they send jamie lee up to stand behind the bed and talk to the geek as he comes in , noticing a form on the bed .  she says , " kiss me , kenny , " and he kisses the body on the bed , which happens to be a cadaver .   ( " oh my god , they killed kenny !  you bastards ! " )  it's a sick trick , and one jamie lee wasn't let in on .  she still hasn't forgiven the guy as they board the terror train ( " you asshole , you can't have a good time without hurting somebody ! " ) .  the killing starts before the train even leaves the station .  since it's new year's , everyone's wearing disguises ( a convenient plot device we've seen before ) , and someone stabs the guy in the groucho mask when no one's looking .  at least one of the characters says it's a groucho mask ; when the killer dons it and steps aboard , it looks like gene shalit who , by the way , would make a great killer in a slasher movie .  speaking of weird-looking dorks who still persist on the entertainment scene , one of terror train's most famous gimmicks is the appearance of david copperfield " as the magician , " who regails those aboard with illusions set to disco music .  then there's his greatest trick -- getting laid with hair that looks like that .  for all its attempts at visual style and substance , terror train is more lionel than amtrak , more prom night than halloween , and nothing really worth watching .  only die-hard fans of jamie lee curtis and david copperfield ( if he truly has any fans ) should even attempt to watch it .  and it makes me wonder if a horror movie set in an rv could be much worse .  i mean , when was the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station , anyway ?  terror train is definitely the cinematic equivalent of a sleeper car . 
pos@ the event of events is upon us .  people have waited twenty-two years for the prequel to star wars and die-hard fans have been camping out at theaters for months to get tickets to see it .  i don't think that america will ever actually recover from what this hurricane of a film has caused .  it is not a bit of an exaggeration to say that this is the most highly anticipated movie in history .  anyone who tells you " it's just a movie " is either lying or clueless .  it is clearly obvious that after the waiting and the hype actually seeing the movie will be anticlimactic .  the second coming of the lord could not live up to the kind of buzz ( which is far too weak a word ) that star wars epsode i : the phantom menace so effortlessly generated .  but that does not mean that the film itself is bad .  in fact , it is terrific .  i strongly suspect that many of the people who were dissappointed by it have simply surrendered to the media machine and the inevitable backlash .  it is set some decades before the events of the original 1977 star wars took place .  the film focuses on the fledgling republic of planets and the conflict that is raging : the trade federation , angry at some tax raise that was recently put in place has invaded the small , peaceful planet of naboo .  the republic sent two jedi knights ( people that can actively communicate with what is affectionately known as " the force " ) , qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) and obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) to negotiate .  unable to stop the tide of events that was about to occur , the jedi and the queen of naboo ( natalie portman ) escape naboo and head for coruscant to try and get the republic senate to intervene .  on the way they get sidetracked to a planet called tatooine , where they meet the movie's real focal point , young anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) .  he is an innocent slave boy , but " the force is strong with him " so qui- gon is determined to take him with them to the jedi counsel and get him trained as a jedi .  as any self-respecting star wars fan should know , anakin will grow up to be darth vader and give birth to luke skywalker .  >from the beginning it is evident that this is not an actor's movie .  around 70% of the characters , if not more , are computer generated in one form or another , and though the effects are seamless , the movie lacks soul .  i think that although the computer has played an incredibly instrumental part in moviemaking this decade , cinema should still be a human art and the phantom menace nearly defies this .  this is the lightest installment in the star wars saga thus far , with plenty of broad comic relief to go around , much of it courtesy of an irritating knew character named jar-jar binks .  he's essentially a computer-animated sidekick who says things like " exqueeze me ? "  and " mesa go now , okeday ? " , and although it is often amusing it is also inherently annoying .  the visual effects are astounding ( although director george lucas often chickens out by cutting away from them ) and the movie is a thrilling triumph .  if it lacks in plot and in acting it makes up for it through imagination and excitement .  the climactic lightsaber battle ( oh , come on , as if you didn't already know ) , among other things , is outrageously entertaining and defines the term " popcorn movie " .  what made me surrender and give this movie * * * 1/2 stars was the score by john williams .  even though it does seem like the man scores every single movie that comes out these days , his work here is nothing short of brilliant .  his use of opera during the climax really does add a punch and his ingenious way of utilizing the imperial march as a sort of prophecy is chilling .  the phantom menace is probably most effective as pop nostalgia .  when you see " a long time ago , in a galaxy far , far away " , when the familiar music plays , when the words " star wars " appear on screen , you'll feel a tingle even if you didn't see the movie when it first came out in '77 .  it feels oddly exciting to be introduced to young anakin , a boy whose innocence , we know , will be taken away and who will soon cross over to the dark side .  it is the perfect example of dramatic irony to see the jedi masters aspire to get him trained in the jedi arts ; we know that it will do more harm than good , but they do not .  we not only feel more involved in the story , but we feel like we're seeing the beginning of a saga that we have cherished for years .  the phantom menace , although lacking in human aspects of the story , is a very worthy installment in the star wars .  it works as an action flick , visually eye-popping and often paralyzingly exciting ; it also works as an elicitor of memories , a piece of exquisite nostalgia .   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
neg@ when the haunting arrived in theaters , all i kept hearing about was the overdone special effects and the fact that very often the unseen bumps in the night in a horror film are far scarier than those that you can put a face to courtesy of special effects .  while i agree that this remake of the haunting goes a bit overboard in the visual effects department , i don't think that they are completely to blame for this movie's failure .  it appears that some people have failed to take into account that the original haunting had the " unseen " terrors , and it was about as scary as a dust bunny .  so special effects or not , if the story isn't the least bit scary , you aren't going to end up with a very frightening movie .  the thing that interested me most about this movie was the caretaker of this building played by bruce dern .  dern is always great , and even though he may have had only about 3 minutes of screen time he was still the most interesting element of the movie .  as i sat through the seemingly endless , albeit fairly impressive , special effects , i kept wishing that this movie was about dern's caretaker and not the one dimensional characters that populated the cast .  never a good sign when a bit player is the best part of the movie .  liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting experiments on fear .  he decides the best way to get results is to trick a group of fairly unstable individuals to spend a few days in a haunted mansion .  he tricks them into participating by letting on that he is conducting an experiment on insomnia .  and he also fails to mention that the mansion has a reputation for strange goings-on .  catherine zeta-jones , lili taylor and owen wilson play his subjects .  like the original , taylor's character is the star of the movie .  but since she doesn't quite have the marquee power of liam neeson and ms . zeta-jones , their parts did seem to be a big larger than in the original .  and let's face it , probably half the people who see this movie will do so because of zeta-jones .  i'll admit that i would have never seen this thing if she weren't in it .  but the real stars here is the special effects combined with the fairly overdone sets .  they take over the movie as the supernatural elements of the house start to interact with our hapless insomnia patients .  there really isn't much of a story here .  just endless setups so director jan de bont can showcase all the nifty special effects that he got to play with .  and the special effects are great .  in many cases they are as good as you are likely to see anywhere .  in other cases they are overdone and obviously thrown in just for the sake of hitting the " cool shots " quota .  at no point in the movie do any of these things ever come close to being scary -- funny , maybe .  but not scary .  then we have the set .  when i first saw the house , i was very impressed with the very cool gothic look about it .  but it only took a short tour by the characters around the place to see that the set designers obviously had as much money to burn as the visual effects people did , and decided to take the idiotically overdone route .  this included a flooded hallway with books as stepping stones and a mirrored circular room that revolves .  what part did these rooms play in the story ?  absolutely none .  they were just there to take our minds off the fact that there was neither a descent story nor a single scare in the entire movie .  then we have the actors .  lili taylor has never been one of my favorites .  and when the fact that her character is mousy and pathetic is factored in , she comes in around the average or slightly below mark .  i have no idea why liam neeson took this role .  he basically reminded me of the ringmaster at an out of control circus .  his character was in charge of this farce but it quickly got away from him .  i have no doubt that liam will want to lock all prints of this movie in a very secure vault along with all copies of darkman .  zeta-jones was cast because she is too hot for words .  the fact that her character is bi-sexual is just icing on the cake .  all catherine has to do in this movie is look good .  fortunately that is something she does very well .  while she does have a fairly good size part , it is obvious that her only purpose in the movie was as eye-candy .  it's too bad someone of her talents wasted them here .  any random supermodel pulled out of a fashion show could have easily filled her role .  the haunting is the antithesis of another of 1999's horror movies , the blair witch project .  the haunting had a seemingly limitless effects budget , while blair witch relies on piles of rocks for its scares .  both prove quite nicely that special effects are irrelevant to a horror film .  if the story sucks , it's all downhill from there .  my advice ?  if you are looking for special effects , go rent star wars .  if it's scares you want , rent halloween .  either way , it's probably in your best interests to skip the haunting . 
pos@ with the success of the surprise hit alien , directed by ridley scott , a sequel was inevitable .  in fact , after watching the first film , a sequel was wanted , particularly by this reviewer .  handing over the director's chair to recent box office gem james cameron , who had only made two films previous to this one ( pirahna ii , a surprisingly dull film , and terminator , making cameron a household name ) , the alien series got a face-lift of immense proportions .  instead of being a suspense/science fiction film , cameron alters the series and changing it into an action picture .  what results is one of the most terrifying films ever created .  a film like aliens comes along only once in a while , and when it does , audiences are usually unprepared for it .  i never saw this movie in theaters , but i wish i could have .  the terror and fright must have been unimaginable , most likely with audiences members literally shrieking in fear .  aliens is an action film unlike any i have ever seen .  with a science fiction plot , cameron gives aliens added testosterone , pumping up the action and fire power from the original film .  in fact , aliens is one of those few sequels which tops the original .  perhaps what makes the alien series so impressive is the hero--or heroine , as the case may be .  never have we had a more sympathetic hero in an action film , and never have i seen such an impressive acting job done by the main character .  sigourney weaver is possibly the only actress who could play this character and make her realistic enough for us to care about .  placing a woman in these situations would sometimes seem unusual , but because of weaver's presence , a woman is the only suitable hero .  aliens begins 57 years after alien ended .  lieutenant ellen ripley ( weaver ) is discovered in hypersleep on the nostromo and is awakened .  she explains how she is the only survivor of her past encounter with the aliens , but " the company " is doubtful .  they explain that a colony of families is flourishing on the same planet from which she just left .  despite stern warnings from ripley , the company remains rigid and won't call the families back .  however , when the company loses contact with the colony , ripley's story seems much more feasible .  one of the company's directors , carter burke ( paul reiser ) , wants to gather a team to travel to the planet .  this team includes a buff private vasquez ( jenette goldstein ) , a questionable corporal hicks ( michael biehn ) , and a loyal android bishop ( lance henriksen ) .  burke tags along with ripley as they fly to the planet in order to locate the members of the colony .  arriving on the planet , the team finds most of the human life extinguished in a cocoon-type environment .  the only survivor is 12 year old rebecca " newt " jorden ( carrie henn ) .  ripley finds this a chance to be the mother she never had the opportunity to become , and she becomes newt's surrogate mother .  ripley and newt are the only ones who knows what has happened , and soon , all hell breaks loose .  aliens not only multiplies the thrills and suspense from scott's version , it also multiplies the number of aliens in general .  alien focused on one alien in particular which systematically killed each crew member , except ripley , who managed to jettison the alien out of the nostromo .  aliens focuses on an entire race of these aliens , and as a result , the chills are incredibly heightened .  then again , this is james cameron , the guy who has given us true lies and terminator 2 : judgment day .  he is the best action director out there ( topping renny harlin , who directed cliffhanger ) , and only he could create something as terrifying as this film .  it seems that every alien film seems to have some memorable scene or scenes , and aliens has the motherload .  with perhaps one of the most astonishing endings ever created for an action film , aliens climax never seems to hit until the viewer is nearly pushed to extreme exhaustion .  i can't recall another film ever to sustain this level of intensity throughout , never dropping for a moment .  just when you think the movie is over , something else will occur , and it starts right back up again .  with a seemingly endless conclusion , aliens ends with one of the greatest moments in film history .  this scene is usually the one remembered most from the film , as lieutenant ripley steps into one of the lifting machines to fight the alien queen .  using flawless special effects , the climax is exhausting , leaving any audience member drained from extreme anxiety .  of course , for a film of this genre to work properly , the technical aspects must be realistic enough for us to believe what we see .  aliens is completely realistic , even a decade after its initial release .  the special effects are wonderfully seamless , with a terrifying alien to go with them .  one of the most overlooked aspects of this film is the music , composed by cameron-regular james horner .  horner has created a terrific score , receiving an oscar nomination for his work .  not only that , horner has also created one of the best scores for any action film , or science fiction film ever ( and that includes 2001 : a space odyssey , which was mainly a compilation of well-known composers ) .  in fact , the climax music is also some of the most recognized of film music .  the production design is incredible , which also happened to snag a nomination from the academy .  dark corridors lit by red lights are very impressive , but more impressive is the amount of terror which arises from well-lit locations .  normally a film will be very dark in order to scare a viewer ; aliens uses lights to scare the viewer .  then , of course , is the cinematography , which uses point of view shots , along with video feeds in order to build suspense .  some of the scariest scenes involve the perspective of ripley .  surprisingly , the acting is not only above average for this genre , but some of the best .  sigourney weaver received an oscar nomination for her portrayal of ripley , incorporating the right amount of sympathy into her hard-edged persona .  weaver soars above the rest in this film , but she is supposed to .  carrie henn gives an above average performance for a child , developing a three-dimensional character from her quiet attitude .  lance henriksen is terrific as bishop , showing that androids don't always have to be flat characters .  jenette goldstein shows a fair amount of enthusiasm with her role , and steals several scenes of her own ( though her personality becomes slightly annoying when she isn't fighting ) .  michael biehn gives a very nice performance in the most obligatory role of the film .  however , biehn does a good job , making it seem original again .  paul reiser may seem like an odd choice to play the sleazy corporate director , but reiser manages to pull it off quite well ( however , i still see him as paul on tv's " mad about you " ) .  a very good cast ( which also includes bill paxton and william hope ) highlights this action film , making it stand out from others .  aliens is rightfully rated r for violence , gore , language , and terror .  aliens is sort of the redefining moment of the science fiction genre , as alien was more of a suspense/horror film .  aliens pumps up the stakes , and cameron directs it with professional quality .  cameron certainly knows how to make a good action film , but here he proves how he can create some truly horrific moments on screen .  technically astonishing , aliens' only flaw is small characters who are only there to get killed .  aside from this , you probably won't experience anything like aliens for quite a while . 
neg@  " american pie " alums jason biggs and mena suvari star in this summer's attempt to capitalize on the youth market looking for a comedy about young people they can relate to that combines generic hollywood cute couple-ness and zany comedy .  it's about an a+ student ( biggs as " paul " ) who gets a scholarship to some college in new york city who sticks out like a sore thumb and falls for dora ( suvari ) a ditzy heroin-chic goth chick who has no ambition or self-respect whatsoever and allows herself to be pushed around just like " hick-boy " paul is .  so we've got a fish-out-water formula mixed with meet-cute romantic comedy which ideally should make for a good movie .  unfortunately the atrocious screenplay and boring direction by " clueless " auteur amy heckerling successfully manages to screw up everything about the film .  these characters are totally unrealistic and unbelievable - it's as if everyone under age 30 is a stoned raver .  there's no background or details to anyone or anything , it's just a bunch of cartoon characters running into each other .  not to mention the story itself which is virtually non-existant and contains so many plotholes it's like swiss cheese .  even the basic editing is bad .  if you're looking for a romantic comedy stay far away from this one because it is neither romantic nor funny .  i saw this in a packed cinema on opening night and the audience barely laughed at all .  if you've seen the commericials you've seen all the " funny " parts ( which are all from the first five minutes ) . 
pos@ is it just me , or have disney films gradually lost their appeal ?  i was almost stunned by the quality of " who framed roger rabbit ? " , a fun , unique look at a world where cartoons and people lived together .   " the little mermaid " harkened back to , and perhaps surpassed , the classic disney animations from the first half of the century .  however , the endless stream of " the little mermaid " wanna-be's is getting to me .  you know the spiel : a lame plot recycled from some well-known story , colorful , almost psychedelic animation , the lead character who learns a valuable moral lesson , the comedic sidekick/sidekicks , the seemingly unattainable love interest , a few catchy songs , a few in-jokes for adults , and the occasional out of place warner-brothers-coyote-fall-off-the-cliff type joke .  it's a formula , and like any formula , it gets tiresome .  that's why i'm delighted to hear that disney recently picked up the international distribution rights to the works of ghibli , a japanese cartoon studio .  from what i've seen of their movies ( " kiki's delivery service " and the already english-dubbed and american- distributed " my neighbor totoro " ) , foreign audiences are in for a treat .  these movies , particularly " kiki's delivery service , " are wonderfully original and entertaining .   " kiki's delivery service " starts with an unusual premise : kiki , upon hearing forecasts of clear skies , decides it is time for her to leave home .  this is unusual because kiki isn't a college student or a young adult making her start on the world , but a thirteen year old girl eager to begin her training as a witch .  her mother is also a witch , and as thirteen is the obligatory age for such training , her parents treat her leaving understandingly and put up only token resistance .  just the idea of a witch heroine may scare away some audiences , but no mention is made of the occult , and the subject is dealt with harmlessly throughout the movie : kiki's mother acts as a village doctor , and kiki is able to do no more than fly on a broom .  kiki must choose a city to move to , and what she chooses is the co-star of the movie : a german seaport town , far removed from the country life she has been used to .  initially lost in the impersonal hugeness of her surrounding , she's discouraged , and unable to support herself though her rudimentary skills as a witch .  on the verge of leaving for a new town , she uses her power of flight to deliver a pacifier to a baby who dropped it .  the favor eventually blossoms into her working as a courier , a one-persons delivery service .  this is where the movie becomes shockingly good .  kiki's job is a catalyst for her realizing the beauty of the city and the world around her .  the townspeople she is put in contact possess an inner worth that doesn't seem forced or artificial , but merely derived from looking at ordinary people in a different light .  they're three- dimensional , impossible to quickly evaluate , possessing of faults , and understandably reserving in kindness towards a strange girl .  however , each one has something about them , some interest or trait , that makes them interesting and unique .  the personal beauty of the citizens is complimented by the beauty of the surroundings : the seaport town genuinely looks impressive , capturing the european charm of a medieval city adapted to the more modern needs of the 1950's .  this beauty is beauty with depth ; for every detail left in , dozens are only hinted at .  i could probably go on all day , but i won't ; suffice it to say that many of these minor details could have been the highlight of the movie .  some of my favorites are kiki's relationship with the baker's husband : although he's quiet , never shown speaking to kiki throughout the movie , and he initially scares her , his kindness wins her friendship .  in the garage of a deliveree's house can be found a vintage model t . two old ladies have a relationship evolving from master-servant to friend-friend .  such details gives the impression that the beauty shown in the movie is only the tip of the iceberg .  added on top of this is a lesson on the importance of self-worth .  kiki initially seems to derive much of her self-worth from the beauty of her surroundings and the people around her , but an encounter with a rude girl crashes down her bewonderment , making her question the importance of such beauty .  this causes kiki to lose faith in herself .  however , kiki comes to realize not only the beauty of her surroundings , but the innate beauty inside her .  seeing kiki regain faith in herself is marvelous , and the principal device used to do it is so sublime that i don't even want to hint at it .  the ending of the movie has a subtle charm combined with a sense of awe and , ironically , the most disney-esque moment i've ever seen ; if you don't hold your breath in wonder you might want to get medical attention .  the movie steers free of many of the disney conventions : there is no violence , however cartoonish , no song-and-dance number , and kiki's pet cat jiji is more a friend than a comedic sidekick , although jiji is given many funny lines and scenes .  however , i would be surprised if disney doesn't give jiji more jokes , or at least the voice of some comedian .  refreshingly enough , the moral lesson of the movie is not self-contradicted , a habit disney movies have gotten into .   " beauty and the beast " 's beautiful belle , for instance , learned that beauty was derived from a person's inside , and was then rewarded by having the beast turn into a handsome prince in snazzy clothing .  kiki , on the other hand , learns to separate her wardrobe from her self-image , and nothing more is made of her early desires for better clothing than illustrating her increased maturity at the end of the film .  another difference with disney movies is in the style of animation for " kiki's delivery service " : not as colorful and dynamic as disney animation can be , but with a greater attention to realism and detail , it fits the movie to a t . this is particularly true with scenes of kiki's flights .  the extreme realism of the birds in flight near kiki is magnificent to behold , and helps these scenes capture the wonder of flight better than any other film i've ever seen .  i'm not sure when or how this movie will be released in the united states .  disney tentatively plans a theater release of " monoko hime " shortly following the summer '97 japanese release , and should start releasing the other ghibli films after that .  i'd guess that some will be released on video and some will be theatrically released in peak seasons with no competing disney release .  although the wait is unfortunate , it's good to know that it's being released at all , for " kiki's delivery service " is definitely a movie worthy of widespread promotion and release .  watch this movie .  along with " man bites dog , " and perhaps something by woody allen , this is the best movie i've ever seen . 
neg@ not so long ago , men by the names of peckinpah , ford , leone , and eastwood made westerns .  real westerns .  these were some of the best films of the twentieth century .  those days are gone .  now we have crap like wild wild west to pass for the western .  and that record is not improved with the unbearable tale of american outlaws .  outlaws is yet another re-telling of the jesse james legend , courtesy of b-movie king james g . robinson ( producer of such classics as wrongfully accused and chill factor ) .  delayed since the spring , this version stars the irish hunka hunka burning love colin farrell ( the best part of schumacher's tigerland ) as the bad-ass jesse james .  alas , any sense of his character has been left on the ranch , leaving us with only cute chicks like ali larter ( minus the whipped cream ) to watch .  the spin this time around : fresh from serving as southern militiamen in the civil war , jesse james ( farrell ) , his brother frank ( gabriel macht ) , and his pal cole younger ( scott caan ) lay down their arms and head home to missouri to tend the family farms after the war has ended .  but trouble is brewing in their small town of liberty when evil railroad baron thaddeus rains ( harris yulin ) and his cronies rollin parker ( terry o'quinn ) and allan pinkerton ( timothy dalton ) demand the boys turn over their lands to the railroads .  the jameses and the youngers then join forces to fight the railroad -- by robbing banks up and down missouri , thus cutting off the railroad's financial surplus and playing robin hood to the local people .  along the way , the boys squabble over who's the cutest of the gang , who's the most popular cowboy in the gang , and who ought to go on mtv's total request live .  they rob numerous banks with identical interiors , always with the kindest of hearts , strutting in their grungy dusters as moby songs play in the background .  the witty banter they share could be plastered within a hallmark card .  the biggest disappointment here lies in the acting of colin farrell .  after a great job in tigerland , farrell walks through this role easier then nicolas cage in gone in 60 seconds .  and his american accent rivals richard gere's irish accent in the jackal .  combined with feeling like bonanza : the teen years , this homogenized production ( toned down to get the ever-popular pg-13 rating ) gives us an invincible jesse james that quickly grows tiresome and boring .  the unbearable villains courtesy of timothy dalton and thaddeus rains spend the entire film proclaiming that everyone should be hanged , sucking out any energy left in the film .  not to mention : the real story of jesse james and his gang bears no resemblance to the plot of american outlaws .  instead , the movie is full of old , outrageous tales about the wild west -- tales which went out of style in 5-cent magazines about a century ago . 
pos@ the " submarine " genre of movies seems to be one of the most intriguing and compelling types of storytelling there is .  think about it . . .  these films are completely based in reality , yet only a handful of people have ever been on one , making them fascinating to the general public .  they aren't like movies that take place on a plane or a train , as anybody can get on one of those .  and they aren't like movies that happen in outer space either , because no one's done any of that stuff yet .  when a new one comes out , you don't hear anyone say " ugh , another submarine movie " like people tend to say " ugh , another boxing movie " .  look at modern movies that involve submarines : das boot , the abyss , the hunt for red october , crimson tide . . .  all are well regarded as top-notch entertainment .  gladly joining that bunch is u-571 , which stars matthew mcconaughey as the executive officer of a u . s . naval submarine during world war ii .  we learn he has been denied a recommendation for his own command by his superior ( bill paxton ) .  mcconaughey's crew then receives orders that they will be boarding a disabled german submarine to steal the enigma , a german communications encoding device that has stumped allied intelligence .  the mission goes horribly wrong however , and as a result , mcconaughey and only a handful of his crew ( as well as a captured german ) become trapped aboard the u-571 in enemy waters .  the first great thing about u-571 is the film's opening sequence .  the german crew of u-571 are under attack , which sets the events of the rest of the film into motion .  it's tense , exciting and fascinating .  and i applaud the filmmakers for not copping out and instead keeping the entire sequence in german with english subtitles .  most movies with a scene this long would have panicked and had the german crew speaking english right away .  once the plot gets moving , u-571 gives us action sequence after action sequence , making the audience wonder " ok , now how do they get out of this ? " .  the stakes keep raising ( much like in executive decision , an excellent action-thriller ) , and even though the audience knows how the film will end , it's a lot of fun getting there .  i only have two minor complaints about the entire film .  the first comes from the scenes which follow the opening sequence .  while their purpose is to introduce us to the characters and to get the story going ( which they do ) , i feel as though it could have been done much quicker , and less conventionally .  i mean , did we really have to see the ship's crew at a wedding ?  because of that , you now know exactly what's going to happen to the groom !  my other gripe would be during the film's finale .  there's an explosion which ends the film that is one of the weakest looking cgi effects since the president's plane crashed into the ocean at the end of air force one .  i cannot stress this enough . . .  until a cgi effect can be made to look like a model effect , stick with using models .  yes , u-571 is historically incorrect and there are surely some specifics in the plot that people who have been onboard a submarine will tell you " that couldn't happen " , but the overall point of this film is entertainment .  it succeeds fantastically .  [pg-13] 
neg@ this is crap , but , honestly , what older american audience is going to be able to resist seeing jack lemmon and james garner as bicker- ing ex-presidents ?  especially when their supporting players in- clude dan aykroyd as the current commander in chief , lauren bacall as a former first lady , and john heard as the dan quayle-ish vice president .  yup , you're talkin' pre-sold property here and , for warner brothers , the perfect fit into their now-ritual grumpy old men holiday slot .  for the non-discriminating viewer , my fellow americans is fine .  the raw star power alone will have audiences applauding this atrocious political- thriller road-comedy .   ( they did in mine , heaven help us . )  for the rest of us , the movie is immediately tiresome .  the tone is terrible and the banter is worse .  forget wit-- lemmon and garner merely exchange profanities through most of the movie .   ( has anyone counted the number of first penis references ? )  sure , some of the bits are absurdly funny , including a men's room macarena joke , the appearance of an elvis impersonator on a trainload of tarheels , and an all dorothy marching band performing " over the rainbow " at a gay men's march .  the get there from here , though , you have to submit to one of the most offensively overbearing musical scores of all time .  judas priest , is there a single moment of silence in this film ?  even the dialogue gets drowned out .  what a waste . 
pos@ a couple of months ago , when i first downloaded the face/off trailer from the net , my initial reaction was a fourteen carrot gold 'yawn' .  followed swiftly by a press of my computers delete key , not wanting to waste six or seven megabytes of precious space on this piss-poor trailer .  then i started reading the first wave of reviews from the u . s . . . . . unique . . . excellent . . . . must-see .  well , i thought still skeptical , i suppose i might as well go see it when it gets here .  'here' , of course , was still three months away .  i'll admit , when i trotted off to see this film , the only john woo movie i had seen before was the fairly enjoyable but highly forgetable broken arrow .  i'd heard good things about his previous work with movies like hard boiled , but his films were definitely not on my must-see list .  that , let me tell you , has changed completely .  i knew this fact only five minutes into the film , after the brilliantly shot and acted opening sequence where sean archer loses his son blew me off my feet .  the acting throughout the film is staggeringly good for an action flick .  seriously .  i've never been a big john travolta fan , but he , like cage , perfectly suited his role in the movie . . . . . sorry ,  make that 'roles' in the movie .  even travolta's great performance , however , paled in comparison to cage's character portrayals .  my favourite cage scene was definitely when he was crashed out in compardre dietrich hassler's hideout .  half drugged out of his mind , he sits there reclining back in a chair talking about his son's death from castor's perspective - " doesn't it just break your heart . " he mutters coldly .  now don't go thinking from the previous comments about brilliant acting that this is a drama focused movie - it's not .  that's what really makes this movie unique .  it's an action movie with brilliantly portrayed characters . . . . . not a common mix at all .  suspension of disbelief is paramount in this movie though . . . . . that's  the only way to overlook the fact that travolta and cage fire around 5671 rounds at each other . . . . and  never hit .  several action scenes are just so well choreographed that they just make wish that you could press 'rewind' and watch it over again .  the part where archer and troy have a stand off on either side of a double-sided mirror is just plain brilliant .  whilst cage's and travolta's performances would be enough alone to sustain most movies , the lesser characters are just as intriguing .  joan allen , who usually sticks to the straight drama movies , plays her part perfectly as archer's long suffering wife .  i like the fact that her character didn't end up toting a gun at the end of the movie . . . it  would have wrecked her potrayal .  gina gershon was surprising to say the least as castor troy's mistreated girlfriend . . . . . make that * one of * castor troy's mistreated girlfriends .  other movies would have used her character as just window dressing . . . a  sex object , but instead her character is very strong and independent .  dominique swain , who plays archer's daughter , also does a nice job , though her character is not as explored as much as allen's or gershon's .  faults ? well . . . there were some i have to say .  first , the movie's ending , whilst being very good overall , was a bit too drawn out for it's own good .  after the two combatants begin duelling again after the final boat crash you can't help but think - " geez , are you guys nuclear powered or what ? " .  there were certain bits that weren't handled properly , like where archer appears safe and sound on solid ground after jumping off the converted oil platform/prison - more explanation here would have been nice .  overall , this movie was not perfect .  but i thought it was about as close as an action movie has ever came to perfect .  many critics have claimed that this movie will change the way action movies are made . . . . . i  certainly hope so . 
neg@ an affluent horse breeder's past comes up to haunt him ; an ages old cover-up and blackmail comes back to haunt him at the hands of one of his accomplices .  that's pretty much the essence of the movie and i have to say that it becomes quite boring at times and is very slow .  that aside the story was well presented and probably quite close and representative of its source .  the acting in particular i found very good , the character development was also quite interesting but alas the story simply did not hold my interest enough for me to get into the movie .  a few things about the story didn't sit very well with me for example the original scam and cover-up heavily involved the character played by sharon stone , yet in the end her character played a relatively small role and it seems she should have been utilized more to further the story along better .  on the flip side the character played by catherine keener i found to be very interesting and i thought that it was developed very well and helped the story a lot .  the character's aside this movie had some interesting merits but in the end it lacked in story and pacing .  as far as the acting and casting for this movie is concerned i have to say that the choices of nick nolte and jeff bridges were great as well as that of catherine keener .  all these people acted their parts admirably , as for the part that sharon stone played , she played it well but the part was not utilized enough .  the directing for this movie is something that i have to comment on because for once in a long while you see a director actually add a very distinctive flavor to a movie , this is one of those occasions .  matthew warchus in my opinion added an interesting touch and spin to the movie and i think he tackled a touch subject ( i myself wouldn't be able to look at horseracing and make a movie out of it ) .  there is a certain flavor about this movie and i think that the direction of the movie is the reason for this .  the one flaw that i do have to comment on is the pacing , the subject matter in my opinion wasn't interesting enough on its own to have this kind of flavoring and directorial touch about it .  i certainly hope that the director makes more movies as this does show promise even if i myself don't like it .  all in all i found this movie boring and very slow , the acting was good but the story just didn't evolve enough and wasn't captivating enough to make simpatico an enjoyable movie to watch .  although there is much going for the movie i didn't find it good even though i see the merits and style used and can compliment the movie on them .  i wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone but if you are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic then you will most likely enjoy this movie . 
pos@ krippendorf's tribe is a formula comedy .  done poorly , formulaic comedies might seem to signify the downfall of american cinema .  however , every now and then , one emerges , like krippendorf's tribe , that actually works .  professor james krippendorf ( richard dreyfuss ) , the renowned anthropologist , is in trouble .  his university gave him a hefty grant to discover a lost tribe in new guinea .  however , he found . . . nothing .  his wife has recently died , and he has spent the remainder of the grant money in raising his three kids : shelly ( natasha lyonne ) , mickey ( gregory smith ) and edmund ( carl michael lidner ) .  tonight , he is expected to lecture on his newfound tribe .  rather than break the news ( and face the consequences of misusing his funds ) , he invents a tribe : the shelmikedmu ( named after his kids ) .  however , one lie begets another as he is not only required to deliver filmed proof of the shelmikedmu , but his research becomes a popular phenomenon .  soon , professor krippendorf is caught up in an elaborate ruse in which he films mockumentary footage starring his children as the shelmikedmu tribal members .  his efforts are hampered by the boasts of an over-eager colleague , veronica micelli ( jenna elfman ) , and the intense scrutiny of a rival anthropologist , ruth allen ( lily tomlin ) .  krippendorf's tribe does seem to require a little suspension of disbelief .  no one seems to question the way his field documentaries seem to be shot with multiple cameras , or that his newly discovered tribesmen have startlingly blue eyes .  luckily , as the film builds momentum , that suspension of disbelief is easy to come by .  though there's some mild humor in the krippendorf family trying to pass themselves off as a lost tribe , the real humor of the film is in how james gets trapped in his ever increasing snowball of lies .  the double meanings to many of the shelmikedmu appearances are enjoyable , and the comic timing required for some of the film's latter scenes is superb .  richard dreyfuss is terrific as the hapless professor who soon loses control of his own imaginary tribe .  jenna elfman's position as a romantic lead seems a bit forced at times , but she plays the part with extreme affability .  even the kids , who in films like this tend to be a bit on the precocious side , are endearing and humorous .  yes , the film does veer occasionally into some rather lowbrow humor , but it has the best excuse of all : it's funny .  it may not go down as an all-time classic , but it certainly delivers what you expect from a comedy : plenty of laughs . 
neg@ first and foremost i think this movie comes to grief at the hands of the pg rating it's been given .  for those of us who haven't read the james lee burke novel that heaven's prisoners is based on , do not rabidly go out and buy tickets to movies featuring the combined talents of alec baldwin and eric roberts , feel vaguely depressed by the notion of swamps , gangsters with louisiana accents , plots , sub-plots , more plots , and well , really just want to see teri hatcher naked , this is one movie you're going to worry the price of admission over .  hopeful still ?  well , let me share my moment of sheer panic , and then the cold enervation of the big let-down when a semi-robed hatcher purrs to alec baldwin , " what do you think of my butterfly ? " .  butterfly ? ,  i asked myself , what butterfly ? !  and then it hit me . . .  the scene had been snipped !  damn you , godless pg rating , show us her butterfly ! !  we want to see the goddamn butterfly ! ! !  so . . .  no naked teri hatcher .  forget about that .  okay ?  now . . .  heaven's prisoners is about ex-alchoholic ex-cop dave robicheaux ( alec baldwin ) who's trying to discover life anew running a bait shop and boat hire business with his loving , down-to-earth wife annie ( kelly lynch ) .  everything dull , but hunky dory until a plane carrying illegal immigrants crashes almost ontop of the couple while they're on their boat .  the plane nosedives into the water and sinks , but from its wreckage robicheaux rescues a little pixie-faced salvadoran girl whom he and his wife immediately decide to adopt .  what they don't realise is that the plane's pilot was also a drug dealer , and that the plane had been sabotaged by the latter's erstwhile colleagues .  when robicheaux discovers this , he predictably , against the advice of his wife , a well-meaning dea agent , and two gangsters who rough him up , begins 'poking his nose where it don't belong' , we know that the man deserves all the misery he's going to get .  the question now is whether or not you want to be dragged along for the ride through a tedious , meandering yet utterly suspenseless plot with an unlovable hero as your guide .  as dave robicheaux , alec baldwin is fat . . .  no seriously , this is not the svelte , thinking man's hero of the hunt for red october , it is an out-of-shape guy who doesn't look too good in a roof-top chasing scene .  he's also unconvincing in the movie's dramatic moments , acting with what as far as i can tell is a steven segal-like economy of expression .  three-quarters of the way through the show , while you're probably waiting for the next scene in a bar where robicheaux contemplates succumbing to the temptation of the whiskey bottle , getting drunk and beating up someone or getting beaten up , you'll want to beat on him a little yourself .  on the other hand , mary stuart masterson ( some kind of wonderful , fried green tomatoes , benny & joon ) cast as a down-and-out stripper who has her fingers broken is quite a breath of fresh air , with just the right mix of cynicism , warmth , insecurity and humour to be the movie's only endearing character .  eric roberts as bubba rocque , always believable as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box ( see final analysis , coincidentally also directed by phil joanou ) is believable here as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box .  and lest we forget teri hatcher's role in all this , this being her rather well-publicised paid vacation from playing lois lane on tv's " adventures of lois & clark " . . .  she is totally ridiculous as rocque's manipulative and seductive cajun wife , coming across as devious as a mildly disgruntled au pair who's trying to get back at an employer who hasn't been giving her enough days off .  it's probably safe to say that her day job beckons .  and at the end of our day , none of this is really worth 2 hrs and 12 minutes of our personal misery .  the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
pos@ like the great musical pieces of mozart himself , amadeus is a true work of art .  it is one of those few movies of the 80's that will be known for its class , its style , and its intelligence .  why is this such a good film ?  there are almost too many reasons to explain .  the story : court composer salieri ( f .  murray abraham ) feels waves of different emotions going through his head as wolfgang amadeus mozart ( tom hulce ) comes into his life as the young genius composer .  salieri feels envy , and jealousy , but at the same time is fascinated with mozart's brilliance and ingenious .  we travel through mozart's life as a composer , through his struggles , his triumphs , and ultimately , his demise .  the acting : abraham is magnificient as salieri ; his acting range enables him to focus on each individual emotion and express it through his speech and body language .  this performance earned him a well deserved oscar .  tom hulce is interesting as well as mozart , a quirky , annoying bratty kid with an annoying laugh .  he's strong , but weak at the same time , and must be aided by his wife ( elizabeth berridge ) , who is good in her role , but lacks dramatic depth .  jeffrey jones , in a smaller , more dignified role than such roles in stay tuned and mom and dad save the world , is cast perfectly because of his noble charm .  the movie : every element of this movie works .  the costumes and makeup are very memorable , as well as its stunning art direction , and unforgettable scores ( adapted from mozart's original music ) .  while wolfgang amadeus mozart was a genius at music , milos forman proves with his film that he is a genius of filmmaking .  this movie is a classic that will be remembered for years to come .  ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and  i like it .  i like breathing through it . "  -jack nicholson , chinatown 
neg@ i read the new yorker magazine and i enjoy some of their really in-depth articles about some incident .  they will take some incident like the investigation of a mysterious plane crash and tell you what happened in detail .  it becomes a real education in what agencies get involved and how theories are suggested , and what kind of pressure the investigators are under , and just about any other aspect you can think of .  frequently i get the feeling that the article sounded exciting , but i am being told in more detail than i really wanted to know .  often i get to the middle of a story and say , ok , it sounded good but i now have invested more time than i am willing to spend on this subject .  film is a different medium .  it is a visual medium .  that slows down the telling of stories much more than people realize .  i frequently am surprised to find out how short a film script is and how much of the pages are empty space .  the magazine article and the film script are two very different media .  the insider is a film adaptation of the vanity fair article " the man who knew too much " by marie brenner .  it is too much an adaptation of a magazine article slowed to the pace of a film .  it really verges on being tedious at least at times .  for years the seven big companies knew that they dealt in an addictive drug that caused a host of unhealthy side-effects .  but they pretended for the public that it was unproven and they did not really believe it .  the business was incredibly profitable and the proceeds translated into the political power to squelch and discredit any political movements against big tobacco .  the tide turned when a former vice-president of one of the companies was convinced by the cbs 60 minutes news team to tell the public how much the tobacco companies really knew about the health effects of smoking .  the resulting pressure to stop the story created a small civil war at cbs .  who were the major people involved , what were their motives , how was the story almost killed , how did it get aired anyway ?  that is the story covered in surprising detail by the insider .  this all could have been enthralling , but it is not the sort of thing that a stylist like michael mann would be likely to do well .  and in the end , he failed .  to make a long story short , the film needed a director who knew how to make a long story short .  the film opens with the cbs 60 minutes team in iran with the assignment to interview a terrorist .  we get a taste for their personal style and how they get the upper hand .  they go from being one newsman blindfolded at the hands of the terrorists to the actual interview with mike wallace ( played by christopher plummer ) .  there the news team under producer lowell bergman ( al pacino ) are ordering around the terrorists and getting away with it .  this seems to have nothing to do with the main line of the story , but later when the tobacco industry is so much harder to manipulate than committed terrorists , we have a wry irony on who really has clout in the world .  terrorists can grab the headlines , but the tobacco companies have the real position of power .  incongruously intercut with the iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wigand ( russell crowe ) dejectedly returning from work to his home .  we discover that he has been fired and his career brought to a complete halt unexpectedly .  he had been a very profitably rewarded vice-president in charge or research and development at brown and williams tobacco ; now he was unemployed and needed money to support his family .  rather than support him his wife liane ( diane venora ) demands of him what are they supposed to do for income .  meanwhile the 60 minutes team trying to do a story on fires started by cigarettes have obtained some data they do not understand .  they offer wigand $12 , 000 just to interpret the data .  wigand's severance agreement swears him to secrecy about anything he knows about tobacco dealings , but he is reluctantly he stretches the severance terms .  he is willing to read some documents from another tobacco company and interpret them for bergman .  in spite of the secrecy , wigand's former employers seem immediately to know wigand is talking to 60 minutes and he is warned off by former boss thomas sandefur played michael gambon in an all too brief but deliciously sinister role .  and so the game begins .  wigand is irate at his negative treatment for what he still considered continued to be loyalty to his agreement and his former employer .  meanwhile someone is playing very rough with wigand and his family .  the film examines wigand and the pressures placed on his family as they are caught between two powerful giants .  wigand has always wanted to make tobacco safer and has natural sympathies with getting the story out .  he and his family are assaulted psychologically and financially by the giant tobacco industry that had never lost a legal fight .  al pacino is given top billing but the wigand family is the core of the insider .  the story is told slowly and in just a bit too much meticulous detail .  the film is 157 minutes and is an extremely demanding film for the audience .  the musical score by pieter bourke , lisa gerrard , and graeme revell is one of the worst in recent memory .  it puts ominous chords under some scenes and using voice in ways that become a distraction that gets in the way of the storytelling .  also disturbing is the casting of christopher plummer as mike wallace .  plummer and wallace are such different types and wallace is too well-known for even so good an actor as plummer to play him convincingly .  this film might have been a really engaging experience under another director's control .  michael mann was the wrong person to helm this film and the insider lacks intensity because of his style .  i rate it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
pos@ quentin tarantino seems to have a knack for giving his stars big careers .  after his pulp fiction , many actors began receiving many offers for jobs .  john travolta made his come-back and is now one of today's most bankable stars .  bruce willis proved his acting chops and is now considered an actual actor .  jackie brown , on the other hand , boasts quite a well known cast , except for the main lead : pam grier .  most likely you have heard of her and seen her in films , but she's never really had a breakthrough performance ( her first film was in the roger ebert-written beyond the valley of the dolls ) .  that is , until now .  jackie brown is a highly anticipated feature film from quentin tarantino , whose last film was the huge hit pulp fiction .  after mediocre acting jobs , tarantino returns to what made his name a household one : directing and writing .  jackie brown is the result , and it is fantastic entertainment .  despite excellent direction from tarantino , the cast steals the film , giving one good performance after another .  pam grier gives a stunning performance as jackie brown , and she is supported by an incredible mix of talent--samuel l . jackson , bridget fonda , michael keaton , robert de niro , and robert forster .  more than likely , you will see a few of these names in the oscar pool come oscar nominations .  describing a quentin tarantino film is very difficult , as you really can't say much or you spoil it for everyone else .  i will tread lightly .  jackie brown opens with an impressive shot of jackie brown ( grier ) in a blue outfit walking through the airport .  the camera tracks along with her , and ends up revealing her occupation .  we are also introduced to ordell robbie ( jackson ) , who sells illegal guns to interested buyers . . .  for a hefty price .  ms . brown carries the money from buyer to ordell in order to keep the cops away .  however , an fbi agent ( keaton ) and a local l . a . cop ( michael bowen ) are out to find ordell and catch him while taking the money .  they try to reach him through beaumont livingston ( chris tucker ) , one of ordell's buyers , but he mysteriously ends up dead .  they try again through brown , but she is hesitant to admit to any wrong-doing .  but after unknowingly carrying some drugs for one of ordell's friends ( fonda ) , she is caught and sent to jail .  ordell pays her bail through a bail bond agent , max cherry ( forster ) , and then wants to find out what she told the cops .  after she claims to have said nothing , she reveals the fact that she will tell them about ordell in order to stay out of prison .  ordell doesn't like this , but they both come up with a scheme to throw the feds and cops off their track .  this scheme seems to be going as planned , but unexpected occurances may or may not foul up their goal .  revealing more would spoil the fun of jackie brown , and that's the biggest reason to go see a tarantino film .  tarantino seems to have a fascination with hitmen and unusual predicaments ( and slang terms ) , but they are always done very well and believably .  his hitmen are normally cruel , but pleasant , in that nasty sort of way .  they talk like normal people , except for when doing business , and they are rude to their girlfriends .  of course , this is a tarantino film , and you know you can expect some awkward situations to arise .  and perhaps the biggest flaw with jackie brown is the slow middle section in which the pace begins to drop .  of course , tarantino fixes this by moving onto the climax of the film , adding a lot of his reservoir dogs-style storytelling to it .  things are told from one person's perspective , and then from another , and then from another , each time learning more and more .  this all leads up to a very interesting conclusion , which decides who is on whose side .  on the technical side of jackie brown , quentin tarantino directs it with the same style as he did with his 1994 film .  however , this time around it isn't as nearly as impressive or original .  the writing , on the other hand , is quite good , although i do find tarantino's use of slang terms offensive .  the story jumps back and forth in time as in pulp fiction , but it's much more easy to understand .  his previous film needed a second viewing in order to understand the time differentiation , but jackie brown is very simply to follow , especially considering that the time is given during the " leaps " in time .  perhaps this is a result of the screenplay being written from the novel " rum punch " by elmore leonard .  the dialogue is pretty much intelligent , and all the characters are fully realized .  the cinematography is very well done by guillermo navarro ( who has worked with tarantino on previous films ) and the editing is very good .  and as with pulp fiction , the music is a highlight , bringing back memorable songs from the 70s and 80s .  the acting side of jackie brown is unforgettable .  the performances are incredibly rich , with hidden meaning behind every characters' actions .  nothing is quite as it seems , and you can't really tell which side one person is on .  the real treat , of course , is pam grier who gives an astonishing performance as jackie brown .  her poor living conditions are superceded by her superior wits , which play an important role in the film .  watching grieg , i could tell what was going through her mind , even if i didn't know what she was thinking .  her face portrays a lot of emotion that you can tell when she is sad , happy , or in deep thought .  bridget fonda gives a very good performance as a druggie couch potato .  i didn't even realize it was fonda until i saw her name in the final credits ( her performance actually reminded me of heather graham's in boogie nights ) .  michael keaton comes across very well , as does michael bowen .  chris tucker has a small , but effective performance .  samuel l . jackson is very good , but it seems to me that he was replaying his jules winnfield character from pulp fiction ( although much less cynical ) .  but no matter . . .  jackson is very strong in his role .  robert de niro is actually a little annoying at times , but overall he does a good job as one of ordell's perspective clients and friends .  robert forster gives one of the best performances in the film , as he has one of the most developed characters .  he is present throughout most of the film , and he holds his own against jackson and grier .  jackie brown is rated r for language , sex , violence , drug use , and some offensive remarks .  as a film by itself , jackie brown is a terrific piece of entertainment , with a complex plot to draw viewers in .  however , one can not help but compare it to tarantino's pulp fiction , and expect great results .  when compared , it comes up short , but not that short .  it's a worthy effort , with terrific acting and some impressive writing from elmore leonard and tarantino .  perhaps the best thing about jackie brown is the discovery of pam grier as a major hollywood actress .  i can't remember seeing her in anything ( except for a small role in mars attacks ! ) , but hopefully she will get many more roles from this one .  expect to see her name floating around the oscar nominations ( and hopefully she will even be able to nab one ) . 
neg@ capsule : liebes meets tod .  this was a film about sex and death .  a morgue attendant accidentally revives a dead woman through necrophilia and brings her into his world which is heavy on orgies .  this film says something obscure about the relationship of sex and death , but imparts no insights .  to make matter worse this print was poorly subtitled into english from french .  0 ( -4 to +4 )  - an attractive 18-year-old dies on a disco floor and gets sent to a morgue .  one of the attendants , ben ( jean-marc barr ) is so attracted by her that he attempts necrophilia .  we see him crawling away after a shock .  in the middle of sex the dead teen has come back to life .  - the morgue attendant was just adding a new form of sex to his collection of kinks .  he was already part of a group that gets together for s/m sex .  the revived teen , teresa ( elodie bouchez ) joins them .  - moral dilemma of teresa's father .  ben has abused his daughter's body , but in doing so has saved her life .  - part of this opaque allegory is a man saved from suicide who joins in the sexual hijinx .  also involved is a man in the final stages of dying of aids , a close friend of the morgue attendant .  he does not get involved in the orgies .  - the subtitles of our print were white , often on a white background making them often hard to read , but i don't think there was a whole lot of meaning there that was lost .  - the title means " don't let me die on a sunday . " 
pos@ after being hypnotized , a man believes there is a ghost in his house .  the review  two low-key summer horror films have become surprise financial successes this year : the blair witch project and the sixth sense .  each has made well over $100 million in north america , based on a combination of strong word of mouth and clever advertising .  if a film's box office take were based primarily on its quality , stir of echoes would join blair and sense in grossing far more money than expected , for it is as scary , if not scarier than the other two .  writer/director david koepp has given artisan entertainment , the folks who distributed blair witch a second creepy hit .  the story gets going after tom witzky ( bacon ) , an average blue-collar dad , gets hypnotized by his wife maggie's ( erbe ) sister lisa ( douglas ) at a party .  while the hypnosis goes as expected to the party-goers , it triggers something in tom's head .  things begin to change around him ( blinking red lights let off a strange hum , for example ) , and he fights to stay in control of his own senses .  where these experiences take tom , maggie and their son jake ( cope ) , who tom thinks might have some answers , is down a dark path that will scare and disturb you .  david koepp keeps the action localized ; the majority of the action takes place at tom's house or just down the street .  by keeping things at home , koepp is able to proceed without having to resort to any clumsy segues ( montages of driving down roads as we move from one city to another etc . ) .  unfortunately , the dread and spookiness of stir of echoes are frequently interrupted by moments of levity .  humour can take the tension away from a scene faster than any shoddy special effect or poor acting .  several tense moments become completely diffused by a few misplaced jokes .  also , there are a couple of plot developments that are left unresolved , though to mention them would be to give too much away .  kevin bacon handles the duel task of playing an everyman and a man losing his sanity admirably .  his total lack of understanding of what is happening to him is believable , as are the reactions from his wife maggie .  kathryn erbe is given a role meatier and better written than that of most " wife who can no longer handle her husband " parts .  while it is still a supporting role , her maggie is moving as she watches both her husband and her son enter what she calls " a private club that i'm not invited to " , where they whisper about things all day long .  as jake , zachary cope equals the performance of haley joel osment in the sixth sense , but gets less screen time .  both children manage the same trick , making the audience creeped out by their apparent acceptance of the way things are .  fans of blair and sixth sense will almost surely love stir of echoes .  it combines the dread of blair , a creepy closed-in feel thanks to cinematographer fred murphy and great performances by the whole cast , specifically bacon , to give the fall its first genuine scary film .  if only they had let up on the unneeded funny bits and tweaked the plot a bit more , this could have been one of the year's best . 
neg@ back in february at the monthly los angeles comic book and science fiction convention , new line cinema put on a lavish presentation for its big-screen update of the cult 1960s sci-fi tv show lost in space , complete with in-person appearances by cast members mimi rogers , matt leblanc , lacey chabert , jack johnson , and even gary oldman .  that should have set off my warning alarms--the last time such an extravagant film presentation took place at the convention was nearly five years ago , when none other than arnold schwarzenegger made an in-person cameo to peddle . . .  last action hero .  but no , like millions of others , i bought into the hype and " got lost . "  if only i had gotten lost--literally--on the way to theatre and spared myself the tedium of this sloppily slapped-together blockbuster wannabe .  you may find yourself wondering if director stephen hopkins and screenwriter akiva goldsman were lost themselves when they made the film .  at the convention , goldsman claimed to be a rabid fan of the original television series , and if that really is the case , i'd hate to see what he does with concepts he only has mild interest in .  to say that his script lacks narrative cohesion is to imply that there is a narrative to begin with--which there most certainly is not .  after the setup , in which the robinson family--father john ( william hurt , looking and sounding as spaced out as he does in interviews ) , mother maureen ( rogers , wasted ) , daughters judy ( heather graham , ditto ) and penny ( a heavily made-up chabert , looking like a junior version of neve campbell in wild things ) , and son will ( young newcomer johnson , making the best of it ) --and pilot don west ( leblanc , doing a bad han solo impression ) find themselves lost in space after their ship is sabotaged by evil stowaway dr . smith ( a watered-down but still-lively oldman , cashing a paycheck and loving every minute ) , the script's " stream " of events becomes so fragmented and random that it seems to be made up as it goes along--and hopkins does little to make what does go on the slightest bit interesting .  they encounter another ship .  they board it .  alien spiders attack them .  they return to their ship .  the other one explodes .  they land on a deserted planet .  and so on .  an attempt at a plot involving time travel occurs in the third act , but goldsman doesn't seem to understand the rules that come with using such a story device ; when one character's past self dies , the future incarnation inexplicably lives on .  the look and effects should be lost in space's ace-in-the-hole , but hopkins even manages to botch that .  for a big-budget film , the visual effects are incredibly shoddy .  in one composite background shot , i could see the blue outline around oldman ; the various digital effects for the space battle scenes look like . . .  digital effects .  but nothing in those shots is as jaw-droppingly unconvincing as blawp , a monkey-like space creature that becomes penny's pet .  entirely computer-generated and every inch showing it , blawp looks like it was lifted directly from a sony playstation game .  apparently hopkins thought the same and tried desperately to hide it ; how else can one explain the graininess of blawp's composite shots with the human actors ?  but in doing so , the seams are that much more obvious .  you have to be severely visually impaired to not be distracted when a grainy shot of penny and blawp is immediately followed by a crystal-clear solo reaction shot of judy .  new line is hoping lost in space will become a big franchise much like the long-running star trek cash cow at paramount .  i don't think so .  in a few years , the lost in space movie will likely live on not as a series but as the obscure answer to a trivia question : what film ended titanic's 15-week reign at the top of the weekend box office ? 
pos@  " if there's a beast in men , it meets its match in women , too . "  starring sarah patterson , angela lansbury , tusse silberg , david warner directed by neil jordan written by jordan and angela carter , from a story by carter cinematography by bryan loftus  in recent years , there has been a trend in the field of fantasy : writers have been revisiting the fertile world of myth and fairy tale and reclaiming that world , investing it with new life and energy .  in modern times , fairy tales have become disneyfied and debased ; they have become trite adventures involving leering witches , friendly dwarves , and cuddly talking animals .  but in their original forms , fairy tales have a dark , wicked edge .  crows tear out the eyes of cinderella's sisters , a gorier fate then they receive in the animated version .  hansel and gretel relish cooking the witch in her own oven .  writers have become fascinated by the bloodier , morally ambivalent aspects of fairy tales , and are now modernizing the old stories while simultaneously going back to their roots .  before this trend was in vogue , angela carter--whose stories always have a dark , wicked , subversive edge--had been reinventing fairy tales for years .  in the company of wolves , she and neil jordan retell the story of red riding hood , enlivening it with werewolves , rolls royces , and a visit from satan .  the story is structured as a dream , occurring in the mind of rosaleen ( sarah patterson ) , an adolescent girl about whose 'real' life we learn very little .  within the dream , there are a number of inset stories , most told by dream-rosaleen's grandmother ( angela lansbury ) , and these tales gloss the central story in intriguing , suggestive ways .  the result is a surprisingly successful example of a sinister , contemporary fairy tale .  i say " surprisingly " because there are so many ways this film could have gone wrong .  and there are ways in which it does .  the performances are mediocre , except for lansbury's--she finds the right note for the prim , apple-cheeked granny , the wise and stern teller of cautionary tales .  the soundtrack , synth-heavy , reminded me of bad 80s horror movies , as did the special effects in the shapechanging scenes .  probably state-of-the-art at the time , they are now laughable .  but jordan succeeds at what i consider the trickiest aspect of the film : he transcends the poor acting/music/effects and conveys a sense of the fantastic , of otherness .  one of the problems in adapting full-blown fantasies is that fantasy is often best left to the imagination of the reader , rather than being subjected to the 'realism' of the screen .  part of me would love to see an adaptation of 'the lord of the rings , ' but , on the other hand , i know that any filmmaker's recreation of ents , hobbits , and balrogs is inevitably going to be really lame compared to what i picture in my mind .  this makes jordan's accomplishment here seem mighty impressive to me : he imbues the company of wolves with a genuine sense of magic and mystery .  the somewhat ruritanian dreamworld becomes a kind of ur-reality .  the sunshine is exceptionally warm and abundant .  the nights are quiet and misty and eerie and ghostly .  the peasant village is rustic and cozy , the woods old and hoary .  this archetypal realm is the setting for a smart , subtle , literate script , a script which is as good as you'd expect from jordan ( himself an accomplished fiction writer ) and carter .  for carter , the cauldron of story is a witches' brew , bubbling over with primal ingredients : mist-shrouded forests , ancient graveyards , virginal girls and wise women , wolves with glowing eyes .  she adeptly blends them all together .  there is a symbolic richness to the film ; everything is permeated with a sense of significance .  the point of it all , i think , is to represent a girl's rites-of-passage on an unconscious , primordial level .  a night-journey through the forest , from the village to the grandmother's home , is the crux of the company of wolves .   " don't stray from the path , " rosaleen is told , again and again , and the path is both literal and figurative : the path through the forest and the path of life .  staying on the path is the conventional approach suggested by rosaleen's elders .  carter and jordan , never conventional , explore what goes on when you leave the path .  those who stray will supposedly meet with a dark fate .  this fate is literalized in the dream as werewolves , but the werewolves connote many things : death , sex , knowledge .  if straying from the path leads to death , then it's not a good idea--but if that's what you have to risk to get sex and knowledge ( and therefore power ) , then maybe it's worth the risk .  when you leave the path , the world becomes a dangerous , ambiguous place , but it's full of potential .  and it's certainly more interesting than the disney version . 
neg@ whether you like the beatles or not , nobody wants to see the bee gee's take on some of the fab four's best known songs .  well , maybe that's not true .   .   .  maybe you're curious , the way you have to look in your hanky after you blow your nose .  you just have to know how bad bad can be .  if that's the case , rejoice , because it was twenty years ago today ( or so ) that sgt .  pepper's lonely hearts club band was released ( unleashed ? ) to the world , and thanks to our modern technological advances , you can find this retched piece of filmmaking on vhs .  derived from the lyrics of various beatles' songs , sgt .  pepper's tells the story of the fictitious band made popular from the song ( and album ) of the same name , released in 1967 .  of course , the movie was made eleven years later , the gibbs three have become the lonely hearts , peter frampton is the one and only billy shears , and aside from being about a rock band , the story doesn't correlate to the song at all .  and oh , what joy - we're the lovely audience they'd like to take home with them .  i don't think so .  but at least these characters are actually * people * in a beatles' song , whereas other characters such as strawberry fields ( sandy farina ) gets her name from a song about a * place * called strawberry fields .  the debate over this is really quite futile when it comes down to it , because all the film really has to offer is a feast of horrid cover tunes , embarrassing cameo appearances ( george burns ? !  steve martin ? ! ?  alice cooper ? ! ? ! ) , and uuuuuuggggggglllllllyyyyy 70's fashion and faces .  check please !  the plot is a bit unclear .  people with bad 70's hair run around in leisure suits engaging in music video sequences that look like a sick and twisted world of make-believe from an overly demented mr . rogers .  mean mr . mustard ( frankie howerd ) somehow gets hold of all billy & co . 's instruments , calling dr . maxwell edison ( steve martin with a silver hammer and an out-of-key singing voice ) , the sun king , marvin sunk ( alice cooper ! ) , and a couple of creepy robots to his aid .  supposedly this is a horrible thing ?  i guess in heartland , the talent is pretty non-existent .  meanwhile , the lonely hearts are off doing the classic " sex , drugs , and rock n' roll " thing , leaving poor strawberry fields without her true love , billy .  she sets out to find him , leaving her poor dad and mom ( mrs .  fields !  hey , wanna cookie ? )  all alone to sing a horrible rendition of " she's leaving home " , accompanied by those same creepy robots .  but is billy getting it on with lucy ( dianne steinberg ) ?  ya know , the diamond possessing girl who hangs out in the sky ?  well , there's some crazy chick singing soprano on the roof of a building next to a bus stop , and i assume that's who it was .  it's movies like this that make ya sit back and ask the unanswerable question , " what the hell were they thinking ? ? ? "  nobody will ever know , but as a novelty , sgt .  pepper's is one to examine .  carol channing , robert palmer , keith carradine - they're all here .  but why ? ? ? ?  who knows .  it's irrelevant .  there's as much meaning to be found here as there is to be found in your belly-button lint , although the latter may be more interesting .  with the recent onslaught of 70's nostalgia in the movie world ( the ice storm , boogie nights , reissues of the star wars trilogy , etc . ) , let's pray this doesn't get a special 20th anniversary , second-chance in theaters .  in the words of paul mccartney , live and let die .  in fact , bury this one while you still can . 
pos@ cinematically speaking , gordon parks' original 1971 _shaft_ is not a great film .  a bit slow at times and more than a little rough around the edges as it builds to its climactic explosion of violent action , this spirited but formulaic yarn that initially brought ernest tidyman's " black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks " to the big screen hardly qualifies as groundbreaking filmmaking .  yet nearly 30 years after its original release--and long after the genre it spawned , " blaxploitation , " died with that decade--the 1971 _shaft_ remains an extremely entertaining watch , never having completely escaped pop culture consciousness .  the reason for this is the same one that explains the film's connection with moviegoers far beyond the target african-american audience : the title character of john shaft .  while the fact that the strong , smart , virile , and superbly suave shaft is black is the primary factor for his historical and cultural significance , his broad-based appeal stems from an idea that transcends race : he is comfortable , confident , and proud about who he is , and anyone who had a problem with that could simply kiss his ass .  this fact also explains why john singleton's y2g revival of john shaft is as enjoyable as it is .  much like the film that started the franchise , this _shaft_'s plot doesn't score points in the originality department , but the energy level and smooth attitude distinguishes it from standard crime thrillers .  contrary to what has been reported over the past few months , this _shaft_ is not a remake of the original film , but more of a sequel/spinoff .  the star audiences know and love from the original film and its first two sequels ( 1972's _shaft's_big_score ! _ and 1973's _shaft_in_africa_ ) , richard roundtree , once again plays john shaft , who still runs a private investigation firm in new york city .  however , the focus of the film lies on his same-named nephew ( samuel l . jackson ) , who , as the film begins , is a cop whose take-no-crap demeanor constantly leaves him at odds with his superiors .  when a privileged young man named walter wade jr . ( christian bale ) accused of a brutal , racially-motivated murder is allowed to be released on bail , a disgusted shaft leaves the force and decides to take matters into his own hands as a p . i .  but that's easier said than done , for also standing in the way of shaft and his way of justice is peoples hernandez ( jeffrey wright ) , a dominican gangster who is hired by walter to rub out waitress diane palmieri ( toni collette ) , the only eyewitness to his crime .  peoples--or , rather , wright is also the big obstacle in jackson's way toward commanding this film .  peoples is more of an outrageous comic character for most of the running time , and wright is insanely funny during these stages .  however , he isn't so funny as to make the character come off as goofy and buffoonish , and peoples' eventual turn to more serious villainy is seamless and believable ( which probably would not have been the case had he been played by original casting choice john leguizamo , who bowed out before filming ) .  it's no easy task to steal a film from the jackson ( who is his usual captivating , charismatic self here ) , but that's exactly what wright does--and makes it seem effortless .  then again , with such a talented ensemble surrounding him , it is not too surprising that jackson's impressive star turn doesn't quite tower over the rest ; he is strongly complemented not only by wright but all his other co-stars .  bale has already proven his ability to play an uppity killer in _american_psycho_ , so it only follows that his performance as a similar , less exaggerated character would be spot-on .  collette lends the film some convincing and welcome dramatic weight as the frightened , conflicted diane .  busta rhymes brings some good laughs as shaft's sidekick rasaan .  registering not as strongly--but through no fault of their own--are vanessa williams ( as tough narcotics cop carmen vasquez ) and a dismayingly underused roundtree ; they simply are given little to do in the script credited to richard price , singleton , and shane salerno .   ( jackson also has little to " do " in a sense ; some throwaway footage during the opening credits aside , his shaft doesn't even have one sex scene . )  that singleton once again proves his ability with actors is an especially good thing since he's not really an action director .  this is not to say that he does a bad job with the numerous gunfights and the requisite foot and car chases .  they move well ( as does the film as a whole ) and are reasonably exciting ; it's just that there's nothing terribly inventive about them .  these set pieces are functional in the way the script is : they work well enough , but they're unsurprising and conventional .  but if there's anything that a _shaft_ movie does well , it's make the familiar look cool--and this _shaft_ keeps that tradition alive .  from the slick title sequence--scored , of course , to isaac hayes' ever-infectious oscar-winning theme song , which singleton wisely sprinkles throughout the film--on , the film looks great and easily sweeps the viewer into its world with its energetic bravado .  even a common visual trick such as employing fancy wipes for scene transitions not only feels unforced , it feels necessary .  style doesn't exactly make for a great film , but when it comes to _shaft_ , that's of little consequence .  what matters above all else is having a good time , and the latest _shaft_ should be just the first of many fun rides to be had with this bad mutha--shut your mouth . 
neg@ the formula is simple .  trap a varied group of people on an isolated location , then pop in a seemingly unstoppable monster to kill them one by one .  these have been the successful ingredients for many good films ( the thing , alien , aliens , and tremors to name a few ) .  so , why is it that so many films following this recipe end up pathetically bad ?   ( see the relic for a particularly putrid example . )  perhaps it is simply too easy to forget the necessary binding ingredient : effort and ideas .  deep rising meets these two requirements part way , but not enough to salvage the film .  treat williams is finnegan , the leader of a small boat crew who hire out their services ( and their boat ) for any activity . . . no  questions asked .  this time , however , they may have gone too far .  their passengers , led by the ominous wes studi , are the type of multi-national terrorist squads usually only seen in die hard films .  and their cargo . . . let's  just say it has very high explosive potential .  what is the target of these thieves ?  why , the argonauticus , of course , a high tech luxury cruise yacht on its maiden voyage .  but something else is hunting the argonauticus . . . something  ancient and deadly .  by the time the thieves arrive , nearly everyone on board the ship has been killed .  and now the creature senses fresh meat !  so , you have the thieves and their mercenary boat crew , joining forces with the surviving passengers ( including the ship owner canton ( anthony heald ) , and a thief with less lofty goals , trillian ( famke janssen ) ) against the terror from the deep .  and the monster gets to pick them off one by one .  fortunately for the creature , this particular band of criminals happens to be the dumbest the world can offer .  why else would they indulge in petty squabbling while they watch their friends become fish food .  if there's a more clarion call for unity , i don't know what it might be .  it's pretty easy to guess who will get killed off when .  there are no surprises in that the most interesting characters seem to last until the end .  for the most part , the watery tentacles seem to be acting on the audience's impulses to get rid of the most boring characters first .   ( although i wonder if the filmmakers might have extended djimon hounsou's life a bit if they knew this would be released so soon after his acclaim for amistad . )  treat williams is a passable hero , and famke janssen does her best julia roberts impersonation .  but while wes studi and anthony heald are particularly slimy , very little of the rest of the company stand out in any way .  the biggest treat in the film , however , has to be pantucci , kevin j . o'connor's whining engine-boy , under finnegan's employ .  his constant quips may be a bit over-written , but they manage to capture the same vein of nerve-addled humor that bill paxton delivered as hudson in aliens ( or todd graff as hippie in the abyss , for that matter ) .  it's just a stock part ( the comic-relief character ) , but it almost makes this tired alien clone bearable .  as far as the monster goes , although the cgi is done well , the creature has no logical consistency .  think back to the great ( or even just good ) movie monsters .  they all had a set of " rules " about what they could do , and how and why they would do it .  part of the joy of those films was slowly discovering , along with the heroes , just what those rules are .  the tentacle monster in deep rising doesn't have a set of rules . . .  or if it does , not a very good one .  it merely eats ( or drinks , as the case may be ) , and there is no rhyme or reason for what it does in order to do so .  the film never explains why the argonauticus is attacked in the first place .  it simply happens .  the action scenes are decent , but few are noteworthy .  the film definitely does suffer from its proximity to titanic .  deep rising's peril in the water scenes pale next to cameron's ( but can you really blame them ) .  unfortunately , deep rising's efforts are more on par with speed 2 .  on the plus side , however , the film's closing image shows some promise for a potentially interesting ( but unlikely ) sequel .  perhaps you'd be better off waiting for that one . 
pos@ earth is a harsh , unconsoling drama about the time when india gained independence from britain and the ensuing turmoil that engulfed the subcontinent .  people who supposedly loved the same land and the same god found themselves in bitter conflict , as the country divided into factions fighting in the streets : indian and pakistani ; muslim , hindu , sikh , parsee .  the story takes place in lahore , which was indian before partition , and pakistani afterward , regardless of what its citizens might call themselves .  the action is seen through the eyes of lenny ( maaia sethna ) , a young parsee girl , but it is really about her nanny , shanta .  shanta has a small circle of male admirers .  two of the men are suitors : hasan ( rahul khanna ) , a hindu , and dil navaz ( aamir khan ) , a muslim .  the others--sikh , hindu , muslim--are older ; some are married ; but all appreciate shanta , who is played by the stirringly beautiful nandita das .   ( she also starred in deepa mehta's previous film , fire , the first part of a thematic trilogy which will conclude with water . )  in an early scene , the men are sitting in a park talking with shanta and lenny ; political tension in the country is growing as the day of independence nears .  one of the men remarks , jokingly , that their little group is probably one of the last places in the city where the different religions can still get along .  he is wrong : the men make barbed little comments to each other , spoken like jokes , but with an undercurrent of fanaticism .  the tenor of these exchanges grows darker and more bitter as the movie progresses .  it is easy to perceive , in these squabbles , the trajectory which ends in mass violence and slaughter .  the group around shanta represents , in a sense , a united india , and shanta herself the ideal motherland--one which all love , which inspires hindu , muslim , and sikh to live peacably together .  but the circle around shanta is sundered , as is the state .  a sikh is persecuted , hides , then flees .  another man is murdered .  the group of friends will not meet again .  the movie is rife with images of breakage and destruction : a plate shattered on the floor , a stuffed toy torn apart by an upset child , and , most brutally , when the tension escalates into violence , a man is held down , tied between two cars , and ripped in half by the opposing movement of the vehicles .  it is a visceral and effective metaphor for a country which is being destroyed just as painfully .  the crux of earth's plot is the transformation undergone by dil navaz .  his sisters are killed in brutal fashion , by hindus , because they are muslim .  dil navaz seeks solace from shanta , and asks in desperation that she marry him .  but she loves hasan , and tenderly refuses dil navaz's offer .  the combination of familial anguish and romantic rejection twists inside him , and it is easy to see how he is seduced by the growing mob mentality : the muslim cause gives him a motive to vent his anger and hate .  despite the things he later does , it is to the credit of earth that it does not simply denounce dil navaz and those like him , but shows how circumstances can make decent enough men do monstrous things .  the conclusion--the consequence of dil navaz's transformation--is rather abrupt .  the story earth tells does not end .  it just stops .  it is an appropriate finish : giving us closure would have imparted , at least on an aesthetic level , a sense of resolution , of satisfaction .  but there was no resolution for india and pakistan--they have been at war , on a small or large scale , for decades .  since the personal dramas in earth mirror the political struggles of a nation , it is only right that those dramas should have no terminus .  there is no healing to be had , no closure , on any level ( despite the needless , tacked-on ending , with voice-over narration from lenny as an adult , framing the story ) .  earth is , in some ways , an unexceptional movie .  it does not reinvent the wheel , following instead the standard pattern of historical dramas .  but deepa mehta's directon is assured , and the issues she addresses run deep .  earth does for india what movies like zhang yimou's to live and tian zhuangzhuang's the blue kite did for china : they show us the agonies endured by unremarkable people who had the bad luck to be caught up and smashed in the crucible of history .  such films strike me as inherently valuable , even when flawed .  they may be biased or inaccurate , but they bear the weight of human hardship , and this confers on them a nobility and gravity which other , more inventive films , often lack .  it is notable that all three movies were banned in their native countries : the events shown may have happened decades ago , but they still touch a nerve .  the issues tackled in earth have a particular urgency in light of the nuclear test bombings that took place last year .  in the near future , india and pakistan may launch nuclear missiles at each other .  at the time of the tests i had some understanding of the reasons why this might happen ; after seeing earth , i have a much , much better understanding . 
neg@ this movie tries to present itself as the sequel to jan de bont's debut as a director , 1994 surprise hit speed .  but the only thing the two movies have in common is sandra bullock as the female lead .  annie ( sandra bullock ) is in the wrong place at the wrong time again .  she's going on a cruise with her new boy-friend alex ( jason patric ) , and of course it is her ship that is kidnapped by john geiger ( willem dafoe ) who has a bone to pick with the shipping line .  they sacked him after he got sick .  now he wants the diamonds stored in the ship's safe for compensation .  that actually is the whole storyline .  speed 2 could do without dialogues .  the movie is all about images and remarkable sound .  i don't really know why this is called an action movie .  except for a few scenes that are vaguely reminiscent of speed this goes along the lines of the desaster movies of the 70ies .  first we are introduced to a number of people who are going to be important later on in the movie .  then desaster strikes .  sandra bullock was said to have been glad that she could take action this time around .  i looked for the " action " but couldn't find it .  most of the time she is part of the decoration .  the only time she is part of what happens is when she can have a shot at defusing a bomb and freeing some passengers trapped behind a fire door .  now we know that she can handle a chain saw .  we also know that fire doors on cruise ships can be cut apart in seconds .  the bomb defusal of course goes wrong , but only the furniture is damaged , not our heroes who still are needed .  jason patric alias alex spends most of his time flirting with annie , helping other passengers and frolicking in the water .  his initial sea-sickness is suddenly gone , because there are ship , crew and passengers to be saved from evil geiger .  he does a pretty good job but i can't blame keanu reeves for declining this part .  then there's willem dafoe , the villain , who desperately tries to look as frightening as frankenstein's monster .  he doesn't succeed , though .  an untidy appearance isn't enough to convince the viewer of his psychopath potential .  before he tries again to make us believe he is a dangerous man he should practise for a while in front of a mirror .  i can't really recommend speed 2 . you will probably like the movie if you like funny situations that aren't meant to be funny .  especially the showdown , when the ship first runs into an oil tanker and then dissembles a whole village is a treat .  there you get to see the most superfluous scene in the movie .  in keeping with last year's desaster movie tradition a dog is miraculously saved from certain death .  a really funny ( and meant to be funny ) scene takes place on the oil tanker right before the collision .  some crew members watch two ships colliding in an old movie .  had they looked out the window they wouldn't have missed the huge ship racing toward them .  those of you who still want to see the movie should pick a theater with a large screen and a good sound system to enjoy the visual effects and the phantastic surround sound effects .  in an adequately equipped theater it's as if the explosion were going off all around you and you can feel the seats vibrate .  but the ilm special effects can't save the movie .  for all the money they could have done better . 
pos@ there is nothing like american history x in theaters or on video .  no other feature film takes such a cold hard look at the lure , the culture , and the brotherhood of white supremacy .  nice guy ed norton jr . ( who sang in everyone says i love you ) plays derek , a twenty-year old skinhead .  dad's subtle racism grew large in derek , after gang members killed his father .  dad was fighting a fire when they shot him .  now derek keeps his head shaved and has a giant swastika tattooed over his heart .  derek is more interested in the ideas of white supremacy than in its culture of violence .  at a basketball court , black and white tempers flare .  derek channels the aggression into a game , black versus white , for ownership of the courts .  when the choice presents itself , derek goes for game point instead of the sucker-punch .  cameron ( stacy keach ) steps in to derek's life as a surrogate father .  he takes derek under his wing and nurtures his racist feelings .  keeping his own criminal record spotless , he uses derek as a leader and organizer for high-visibility racial intimidation .  derek obliges by leading his younger and dumber friends in race-motivated mob crimes .  at the bottom of the chain , derek's younger brother danny ( edward furlong , made famous in terminator 2 ) joins the skinheads not for ideological or intellectual reasons , but because he admires his brother and he wants to belong .  one night three black youths break into derek's truck , which is exactly what derek has been waiting for .  outside in his shorts and his tattoo , he shoots them all .  the third would-be thief , unarmed , is only wounded .  in the key scene of the film , derek commands the kid into a position where he can be killed with one glorious , enraptured , awful stomp .   ( the fun-spoiling nc-17 of orgazmo seems even more inappropriate , considering american history x was rated r . what sort of country is this that says sex comedies are a bigger threat to our youth than brutal , ecstatic violence ? )  the police arrive just as derek kills the last thief .  derek does not resist the cops , and as they spin him around to cuff him , the film slows down .  derek raises his eyebrows and smiles at his little brother in a chilling , sadistic , satisfied grin .  now in prison , derek faces new challenges .  as the black man in the laundry tells him , " in the joint , you the nigra , not me . "  there is a clique of swastika-wearing skinheads , but they are not interested in the ideology of white supremacy .  they only use the symbols as a means of intimidation .  derek finds himself truly alone , truly in danger , and truly afraid .  when derek finally gets out of prison , he finds that his friends from the gang have also changed .  without derek's leadership , they have shunned the white supremacist ideology for the white supremacist culture .  it is the final factor that makes him realize how badly he's screwed up .  in the end , he spends quality time with is brother trying to undo the respect and admiration he had earlier inspired in danny .  the film ends a little too deliberately , too neatly after the unchained emotion and violent glee of the rest of the film , but it barely detracts from the overall experience .  edward norton gives an oscar-worthy performance .  although some of his dialogue seemed to be written without enough conviction , norton's performance compensated .   ( an example that comes to mind is his pep talk before looting the store . )  he also captured the essence of an older brother .  he took his responsibility as a role model to his younger brother very seriously , very lovingly , both before and after his change of heart .  though clearly not for all tastes , this film is bold and daring .  the subject matter is ugly , cruel , and at times hard to look at .  nevertheless its subjects are part of humanity's great face .  kaye gives us a good look at this fascinating , if distasteful , american subculture . 
neg@ lucas was wise to start his star wars trilogy with episode 4 : episode 1 is a boring , empty spectacle that features some nice special effects .  after the familiar 'a long time ago . . . . '  opening , the film starts with the opening yellow crawl that features in every star wars movie and computer game .  the plot is that the trade confederation are blocking off supplies to the peaceful planet of naboo , ruled by queen amidala ( portman ) jedi knights qui-gon ( neeson ) and obi wan ( mcgregor ) are sent to negotiate a deal with the confederation to stop the blockade .  however , this simple blockade is not all it seems , and the jedi knights soon have to deal with many more dangers , including facing the evil darth maul ( ray park . )  they also meet the future darth vadar , anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd )  star wars is largely a failure in all the major areas of filmmaking : script , direction and characters .  the script desperately tries to make an thin and boring story into a two hour epic .  the trade confederation plot is just not as exciting as the death star , and as the film goes on the drama becomes more and more non-existent .  there's no underlying tension , and no urgent need to see what the outcome is .  the film also takes a leisurely pace in telling the boring story , which doesn't help .  there's no snap to make the film work , it moves at a plod .  the script is boring : all the characters speak in morals , especially anakins mother .  there's no group spirit evident here , and when all characters can speak only in profound statements or bark orders , it's evident that not much is going to happen .  the two leads are hideously boring , static characters given little to do and too much time to do it .  qui-gon and obi-wan hold no presence on film , and give little for the audience to root for .  the audience will probably warm more to bad guy darth maul , if he had been given more screen time .  maul is one of the most underused bad guys in film history , even if he does provide the only 'straight' plot line in the film ( all the other plots in this film are to be concluded throughout the trilogy . )  anakin is annoying and unlikeable . ,  instead of cute and huggable as lucas no doubt intended .  it's probably not surprising that his hateful little boy , unfortunately blessed 'ani' by everyone he knows , joins the dark side and kills everyone as quickly as possible .  the comedy relief is supposedly provided by the gangly jar jar brinks , although in the end none is provided in the film by him .  although his floppy features will no doubt be great for stuffed toys , the lines and actions he is given are painfully unfunny .  the only good laugh is when his tongue is burned by a 'pod' racer , because i knew he wouldn't be able to talk for a while .  queen amidala is a nothing in the film , she serves no real purpose apart from the fact that she must 'serve her people , ' and go goo-goo over anakin .  again , her role will become more important in the later episodes , and is given little to do here .  the actors don't help the movie much either .  liam neeson seems bored and embarrassed , and seems desperate to leave the movie as quickly as possible .  mcgregor comes across as a posh mothers boy , with little charm .  the casting director must have chose him because he's scottish like alec guinness : there's little other explanation for it .  natalie portman is plagued by hideous costumes and a poor script , but she delivers a spunky performance .  and jake lloyd looks at everyone with hateful eyes and delivers his lines in a bored voice .  there's very little talent evident with him , it's hard to see why lucas chose him when there are better child actors out there .  he's not even very 'cute . '  the main claim of the film , the special effects , are okay .  there's nothing impressive about them , yet they complement the story well .  the cgi takes away much of the human element , however .  the battle droids for example , the replacement for the stormtroopers , are characterless little computer graphics , lacking the humour and humanness that came from the stormtroopers .  episode 1 is just disappointing .  it's got high production values , but little else .  the music is meandering , except near the end .  the plot gives us no-one to root for , or even care for .  the effects are nice , but dull .  the plot goes on for half an hour longer than it should .  there's an air of manufacturing among the whole sorry affair , and many clich ? s are catered for throughout the film .  apart from a remotely exciting pod race sequence , episode 1 is a dry affair that serves little purpose , except to make money and to get us to watch episode 2 to see what happens to the many unfinished plot lines in the film .  disappointing is barely the word .  rating= 
pos@ in the opening shot of midnight cowboy , we see a close-up of a blank movie screen at a drive-in .  we hear in the soundtrack human cries and the stomping of horses' hooves .  without an image projected onto the screen , the audience unerringly identifies the familiar sound of cowboys chasing indians and can spontaneously fill in the blank screen with images of old westerns in our mind's eye .  even without having seen a cowboys and indians movie , somehow the cliched images of them seem to have found their way into our mental schema .  but do cowboys really exist , or are they merely hollywood images personified by john wayne and gary cooper ?  exploring this theme , director john schlesinger uses the idea of the cowboy as a metaphor for the american dream , an equally cliched yet ambiguous concept .  is the ease at which salvation and success can be attained in america a hallmark of its experience or an urban legend ?  midnight cowboy suggests that the american dream , like image of the cowboy , is merely a myth .  as joe buck migrates from place to place , he finds neither redemption nor reward in his attempt to create a life for himself , only further degeneration .  during the opening credits , joe walks past an abandoned theater whose decrepit marquee reads `john wayne : the alamo . '  as joe is on the bus listening to a radio talk show , a lady on the air describes her ideal man as `gary cooper ? but he's dead . '  a troubled expression comes across joe's face , as he wonders where have all the cowboys gone .  having adopted the image of a cowboy since youth , joe now finds himself deserted by the persona he tried to embody .  joe's persistence in playing the act of the cowboy serves as an analogue to his american dream .  he romanticizes about making it in the big city , but his dreams will desert him as he is forced to compromise his ideals for sustenance .  by the end of midnight cowboy , joe buck loses everything and gains nothing .  just as the audience can picture cowboys chasing indians on a blank screen , we can also conjure up scenes from pretty woman as paradigms of american redemption and success .  but how realistic are these ideals ?  joe had raped and been raped in texas .  the scars of his troubled past prompt him to migrate to new york , but he does not know that his aspirations to be a cowboy hero will fail him there just as they had in texas .  alongside the dream of success is the dream of salvation .  the ability to pack up one's belongings and start anew seems to be an exclusive american convention .  schlesinger provides us with strong hints as to joe's abusive and abused past with flashbacks of improper relationships with crazy anne and granny .  we understand that joe adopts the fa ? ade of a cowboy , a symbol of virility and gallantry , as an attempt to neutralize his shame .  he runs from his past only to be sexually defiled this time by his homosexual experiences in new york .  in the scene at the diner which foreshadows joe's encounter with the gay student , joe buck spills ketchup on himself .  standing up , we see the ketchup has made a red stain running from the crotch of his pants down his thigh .  schlesinger visually depicts the degeneration of joe's virility by eliciting an image of bleeding genitals , signifying emasculation .  beyond the symbol of castration , the scene may also connote the bleeding of a virgin's first sexual encounter , a reference to joe's first homosexual liaison .  the fact that the idea of a bleeding virgin is relegated only to females furthers the imagery of joe's emasculation .  it is ironic that joe has trouble prospecting for female clients , but effortlessly attracts men .  joe believes his broncobuster getup is emblematic of his masculinity ; new yorkers see his ensemble as camp and `faggot stuff . '  there are two predominant images of new york .  the first is that new york is the rich , cosmopolitan city where hope and opportunity are symbolized by the tall skyscrapers and the statue of liberty .  the other new york is travis bickle's new york , a seedy , corruptive hell on earth .  joe envisions new york as the former , but is presented with the latter .  mirroring the irony in which joe envisions his cowboy attire as masculine , he mistakenly buys into the fable that new york is filled with lonely women neglected by gay men .  joe thinks he is performing a great service for new york , but the city rapes him of his pride and possessions .  the people steal joe's money , the landlord confiscates his luggage , and the homosexuals rob him of his dignity .  what has become of joe's american dream ?  schlesinger responds to this question with the scene at the party .  joe gets invited to a shindig of sorts and at the gathering is exposed to a dizzying array of food , drugs , and sex .  at the party , all of joe and ratzo's desires are made flesh ; joe flirts successfully with women and ratzo loads up on free salami .  contrasting joe's daily struggles , shots of warhol's crew display wanton indulgence .  there is an irreverence in the partygoers' attitude ; we see a shot of a woman kowtowing to nothing in particular , orgies breaking out in the periphery , and drugs passed around like party favors .  the party makes a mockery of joe' s ideals .  joe believed that hard work and persistence were the elements for success in america ; scenes of the party and his rendezvous with shirley suggest that it is the idle who profit from joe's toils .  the american dream , schlesinger suggests , is merely a proletarian fantasy , for those who are content no longer dream , but become indolent .  as joe heads to miami , all that was significant of the cowboy image has left him .  his masculinity is compromised and his morality is relinquished .  for joe , nothing is left of the cowboy hero and commensurately , he surrenders the identity .  tossing his boots into the garbage , he returns to the bus for the last leg of his journey to miami .  the final shot of midnight cowboy shows joe inside the bus , more introspective , taking only a few glances outside the window .  instead of the frequent pov shots of joe excitedly looking out of the bus on his way to new york , schlesinger sets up this final shot from the exterior of the bus looking in through the window at joe .  reflections of the palm trees ratzo so raved about run across the bus' window with joe hardly taking notice .  the scenery of miami no longer exacts the same excitement from joe as before .  the world seems smaller to joe now ; the termination of his journey coincides with the termination of his american dream .  no longer does joe aspire to be the enterprising gigolo ; he resolves to return to a normal job and resign to basic means .  midnight cowboy presents two familiar incarnations of the american dream .  there is the frontier fantasy that if you are brave enough to repel a few indians , you can set up a ranch out west and raise a beautiful family .  then there is the jay gatsby dream that a man of humble stock , with perseverance , can make a fortune in the big city .  joe's attempt to realize these dreams robs him of his innocence in texas and morality in new york .  during his search for an intangible paradise , joe ends up raping a girl and killing a man .  an allegory of chasing the promise of the american dream , joe buck's progressive moral atrophy is a warning against the pursuit of illusory icons . 
neg@ i think we should , as responsible citizens , all get together and stop jim carrey from making another movie .  he's changing the cinema as we know it--and for the worst .  i would willingly rewatch batman and robin rather then again sit through this miserable collection of filmic moments--prologues , epilogues , etc . the premise : a lawyer can't lie for a day .  ho , ho .  normally a movie made from this premise would be terrible--mr .  carrey suceeds in making it unwatchable .  i laughed once--and i was laughing at the sight of everyone else laughing .  grinding doesn't begin to describe .  it pounds on your head so forcefully and so unstoppably that , if you are a normal person , you leave feeling sick .  when it's not trying to be funny , it's trying to be melodramatic--but it's just annoying , stupid and sappy .  at best .  this movie is intended to make people laugh , yes , not to be voted best picture of all time by sight and sound .  but , it fails on every possible level .  it fails to be funny .  it fails to be insightful .  it fails to be suspensful .  it fails to be fun .  they should pay people to see it .  it suceeds on one level--it makes me want to get down on the ground and start thanking orson welles , for having lived .  if you go in with the intention of coming out alive , please make sure that you are overly fond of boob , fart , pimple and fat jokes--otherwise you will go insane .  yes , literally insane .  stark , raving mad .  it is boring , stupid , melodramatic and in the end ugly .  i reccemond it strongly .  to ed wood . 
pos@  " very bad things , " is the most delightfully morbid film of the year , a movie that goes so far over the deep end with its outrageousness and violence that i couldn't help but be won over by the material .  the film starts off with five friends leaving their homes in los angeles for a bachelor party in las vegas .  the groom-to-be is kyle fisher ( jon favreau ) , who is about to be married to the controlling , wedding-obsessed laura ( cameron diaz ) .  the other friends are real estate agent robert boyd ( christian slater ) , quiet charles ( leland orser ) , and brothers , michael ( jeremy piven ) and family man adam ( daniel stern ) .  after a wild night of gambling , boozing , and drugs , a stripper ( carla scott ) who was paid for by robert comes into their hotel room , but after a freak accident , to everyone's terror , she is killed .  as robert puts it : " there are two options : go to the police and go to prison , or bury her out in the desert where no one will ever find her . "  after a security guard enters into the hotel room unexpectantly and sees the body , robert is forced to kill him as well .   " okay , there is only one option now .  you can forget about calling the police , " he says .  by the time the five friends return home and as the wedding draws nearer , most of them are overcome with guilt , which sets off an even more elaborate series of event , that includes much , much more murder , double-crosses , and the inevitable wedding from hell .   " very bad things , " which is actor peter berg's feature film directing debut , is the shockingly perverse and wicked comedy that , " there's something about mary , " wanted to be .  it pulls out all the stops to create something fresh , original , and hilarious , even if that requires surprisingly graphic violence , gore , and a slew of truly hateful characters that all get what they deserve by the end .  the screenplay , also written by berg , is , to put it mildly , very funny and courageous .  during the second act of the film , some of the fun was beginning to slightly dwindle due to so much death , which was beginning to undermine the humor , but it eventually recouped itself with a climax that has to be seen to be believed .  the dialogue is edgy and inventive , and this film proves that a movie doesn't necessarily require likable character to be extremely enjoyable .  there's more fun , i think , in showing ignorable people getting their just desserts .  cameron diaz gives her best performance to date here , and has a lot of fun in playing the hateful laura , who eventually turns out to be more crazy than any of the five male friends .  diaz puts so much overblown energy to her character that i really do think she deserves a supporting actress oscar nomination come next january .  by the time she is beating someone to death with a coat hanger , and reciting lines like , " stuff him in the crapper and get your ass upstairs , " i couldn't help but crack up at how " balls-to-the-wall " this film had become .  jeanne tripplehorn creates another character original , as daniel stern's wife , who late in the picture , we discover , is a tough kick-boxer that should not be messed around with .  it is at this level that , " very bad things , " was so entertaining and surprising .  just when you thought you could predict what was going to happen , there would be a little twist involving the characters that would be absolutely wacky .  the last sequence was perfect and managed to go even further over-the-top .  although i enjoyed the film immensely , let me make this clear : " very bad things , " is not a movie for everyone .  it is more tasteless than anything i have ever seen , it is more violent and bloody than a r-rated film usually is , and it is offensive .  luckily , these are elements that i would prefer in a comedy , since it clearly shows the filmmakers were set on making a no-holds-barred , politically incorrect comedy .  the fact that this film slipped through the cracks of the usually mainstream and " safe " wide-releases coming out lately , still gives me hope for the hollywood film industry . 
neg@ long time buddies and neil diamond tribute band members wayne ( steve zahn , " happy , texas " ) and j . d . ( jack black , " high fidelity " ) watch in horror as third mate darren silverman ( jason biggs , " american pie " ) disappears under the thumb of his new fiance judith , ( amanda peet , " the whole nine yards " ) a controlling psychiatrist .  they're doubly troubled when the return of darren's 'one and only love' sandy perkins ( amanda detmer , " final destination " ) returns to their home town but doesn't cause a ripple in darren's devotion to judith .  there's only one thing wayne and j . d . can think of doing - they kidnap judith and fake her death in " saving silverman . "  written by hank nelken and greg depaul after seeing a friend engaged to the wrong woman , " saving silverman " is directed by 'hit comedy director' dennis dugan of such films as " big daddy , " " brain donors " and " problem child . "  it's a dismal , third-rate farrelly brothers rip off that attempts to milk humor from such inspired bits of whimsy as having darren's love interest come from a family of circus freaks and be about to become a nun .  gross out gags include a visualization of darren getting butt cheek implants .   " saving silverman " is almost saved by stars zahn and black .  these two are so comically talented they can take bad material and still deliver the goods .  they're in " animal house " mode while the rest of the film trawls along and comes up empty .  jason biggs can attribute his entire career to the luck of having been cast in the smash hit " american pie . "  peet shows some physical moves but no flair for comedy here while detmer slaps a brave , sweet smile onto her face and soldiers through .  r . lee ermey ( " full metal jacket " ) is one note in an embarrassing performance as a psychopathic ex-football coach .  neil diamond appears at the film's climax as himself and miraculously enlivens the proceedings by belting out some of his old standards . 
pos@ when i first heard that romeo & juliet had been " updated " i shuddered .  i thought that yet another of shakespeare's classics had been destroyed .  fortunately , i was wrong .  baz luhrman has directed an " in your face " , and visually stunning piece with this film .  it revolves around the two rival families , who in this version each run multi-million dollar enterprises .  these rival companies/families are the capulet's and the montague's .  the younger generation of these two families have formed gangs , who despise one another .  as the storylines goes , romeo montague ( played by leonardo dicaprio ) and juliet capulet ( claire danes ) meet at a fancy dress party , and it is love at first site .  i never believed love at first site was possible until i saw this film , the scene in which romeo's eyes meet juliet's through the fish tank is one of the most memorable .  of course , they cannot publicly reveal their love , for their families are arch enemies .  so they marry in secret , this is where things begin to go wrong .  the story , as with all good shakespeare , ends in tragedy .  the cinematography is spectacular to say the least , and the soundtrack provides the perfect atmosphere in which to " lay our scene " , as the film says .  there is very little to criticise .  the performances are convincing , and several of the film's younger stars may find that it provides a launch for their careers .  the modernisation of the script is ingenious and clever .  despite the well known storyline , this latest version still manages to cause tears among many members of the audience ( especially the younger generation ) , and this is certainly a great credit to the film . 
neg@ sydney lumet is the director whose work happens to be of varied quality .  he is praised for some of the most important films of the previous decades , like twelve angry men , serpico or the verdict .  but , in the same time , almost any of such pearls is followed by stinkers that hamper lumet's reputation .  a stranger among us , 1992 rip-off of peter weir's witness , belongs to the latter category .  the heroine of this movie is emily eden ( melanie griffith ) , tough lady cop who sometimes shows too much enthusiasm in battling bad guys on the streets of new york .  during one of such actions , her partner nick ( jamey sheridan ) got hurt and as a result , she becomes depressed .  in order to help her recover , bosses give her rather easy task of locating missing jeweller who belonged to hassidic jew community .  emily starts investigation and soon realises that the case involves murder .  concluding that the perpetrator belongs to community , she decides to go undercover .  that isn't easy , because her modern manners are colliding with traditionalist ways .  things get even more complicated when she develops feelings for young cabalistic scholar ariel ( eric thal ) .  using peter weir's formula isn't the greatest flaw of this film .  even the lame and unispiring crime mystery subplot works to the certain extent .  but the worst insult to viewer's audience is terrible miscasting of melanie griffith .  the author of this review never liked this actress very much , but she was at least tolerable in some of her roles .  role of emily eden , unfortunately , isn't one of them .  first of all , she can't pass for tough nypd street fighter , and her attempt to pass for orthodox jewish woman isn't much better .  screenplay by robert j . avrech makes things even worse with some formulaic red herring subplots ( scene involving two italian gangsters was almost too painful to watch ) .  but , on the other hand , other actors are more convincing ( lee richardson as an old rabbi , thal as ariel and charming mia sara as his intended bride ) , and the photography by andrzej bartkowiak very effectively creates atmosphere of warmth when the scenes take place in hassidic community .  also , the film might educate viewers about hassidic culture .  that is the only thing that prevents it from turning into total waste of time . 
pos@ brian depalma needs a hit * really * badly .  since scoring big with the untouchables in 1987 , depalma has seen casualties of war , raising cain and particularly the disastrous bonfire of the vanities go down in flames .  consequently , it would be easy enough to consider carlito's way a shrewd commercial choice for depalma , reteaming with al pacino ( scarface ) and returning to the gangland ground which has yielded his two greatest box office successes .  it doesn't hurt any that he has latched on to a solid story and brought out dynamite performances from pacino and sean penn .  carlito's way , while hampered by depalma's characteristic excesses and stylistic cannibalism , is a truly tense and engrossing drama .  carlito brigante ( pacino ) is a life-long criminal who finds himself unexpectedly given a second chance .  in 1975 , carlito is released from prison after serving only five years of a thirty year sentence when his conviction is overturned on a technicality .  he declares himself reformed , tired of life on the streets and determined to fulfill his simple dream of buying into a rental car business in the bahamas .  among those who find this conversion hard to believe are david kleinfeld ( penn ) , carlito's crooked attorney and childhood friend , and bodyguard pachanga ( luis guzman ) .  carlito rediscovers old flame gail ( penelope ann miller ) , and seems ready to retire in peace .  old ways die hard , though , and old associates pull carlito step by step back into a life he can't seem to shake .  carlito's way will probably make the strongest impression with the two outstanding set pieces which bracket the film .  in the first , carlito accompanies his young cousin on a drug buy which will have anyone with a pulse on the edge of their seat ; the film closes with an equally thrilling chase through the new york subway and grand central station .  both highlight depalma's gift for choreographed mayhem , and these are not the only occasions when the stage blood flows freely .  yet for all the viscera , i found the character study even more compelling .  carlito brigante has a lot of michael corleone in him , an aging gangster trying unsuccessfully to go legit .  but where the culmination of the godfather saga played like opera , there's more of an immediacy to carlito's way , an ever-present sense of doom launched by the title sequence which sets the flashback story in motion .  you sense that there's no way , after so many years , that carlito can stay out of trouble .  indeed , he observes that his attempt at the straight life is more a function of time than a change of heart : " you don't get reformed ; you just run out of wind . "  pacino captures carlito's dilemma with surprising subtlety and the cautious observation borne of years of experience watching every corner for an enemy .  sean penn is even better , turning in his best performance to date as kleinfeld .  a jew in the world of puerto rican and italian wiseguys , kleinfeld is an outsider with a huge chip on his shoulder .  he could have been simply pathetic , a heavy drinker and cocaine addict playing tough with guys way out of his league , but penn invests kleinfeld with tremendous nervous energy and an overwhelming survival instinct .  he shows a man moving steadily towards the brink , making the moment he goes over quite jolting .  as compelling as the narrative is , viewers may experience a profound sense of deja vu .  depalma continues to steal shamelessly from other directors , this time adding scorsese to his repertoire with a point of view tracking shot and a copacabana scene with more than passing resemblances to goodfellas .  he even recycles some of his own previous plagiarisms , like a 360 degree swing around a kiss ( vertigo via body double ) and the climactic shootout which will strike many as far too reminiscent of the train station sequence from the untouchables .  from a story standpoint , there's an obligatory love story with a cliche'd long-suffering girlfriend character .  penelope ann miller is a good but limited actor who doesn't do anything new with the role , and eventually she becomes just a distraction , never integrated fully enough into the story .  still , it's easier to be forgiving of superficial flaws when the backbone is so solid .  the two principle characters held an iron grip on my attention , one all the cinematic thievery in the world couldn't break .  carlito's way plays like a tragic novel : deliberate , confident and powerful .  those willing to grant depalma his tendencies towards the extreme should find themselves well- rewarded . 
neg@ it's a good thing most animated sci-fi movies come from japan , because " titan a . e . " is proof that hollywood doesn't have a clue how to do it .  i don't know what this film is supposed to be about .  from what i can tell it's about a young man named kale who's one of the last survivors of earth in the early 31st century who unknowingly possesses the key to saving and re-generating what is left of the human race .  that's a fine premise for an action-packed sci-fi animated movie , but there's no payoff .  the story takes the main characters all over the galaxy in their search for a legendary ship that the evil " dredge " aliens want to destroy for no apparent reason .  so in the process we get a lot of spaceship fights , fistfights , blaster fights and more double-crosses than you can shake a stick at .  there's so much pointless sci-fi banter it's too much to take .  the galaxy here is a total rip-off of the " star wars " universe the creators don't bother filling in the basic details which makes the story confusing , the characters unmotivated and superficial and the plot just plain boring .  despite the fantastic animation and special effects , it's just not an interesting movie . 
pos@ director jan de bont certainly knows how to make top quality action films .  you need look no further than die hard ( he was director of photography ) , speed and last years twister for examples of his hi- octane , edge of your seat thrill prowess .  speed 2 is no exception .  this time , the action takes place on a huge cruise liner , on which sandra bullock and jason patrick are trying to develop their relationship .  yep , that's right , no keanu reeves this time , but fear not , jason patrick is more than up to the job .  speaking of which , the job at hand is to stop completely bonkers terrorist , willem dafoe , from crashing the liner into a huge island , after stealing a diamond collection .  the reason for this act of destruction is revenge .  after years of working for the company that builds cruise liner computers , he contracts copper poisoning and is retired .  naturally , what entails next is a lot of running/jumping about and general high quality action as jason patrick does his level best to save the day .  thinking back on this film , you can't help , but admire it's structure .  the way , willem dafoe initiates his plan and throws red herrings to the crew and passengers .  the race against time to save the liner from crashing , and of course , the finale chase scence .   ( although this is ruined by an over the top , one too many stunt and explosion . )  simple in construction , effective in it's execution , and the result , a clear and concise , highly enjoyable action film .  the acting is adequate , although it's darned obvious that sandra bullock is only in it to create a 'hot totty' appeal to the men ( and she does that perfectly ! ) , jason patrick fills the action hero role superbly and willem dafoe is just great as the crazed terrorist .  overall , speed 2 is a most enjoyable thrill ride .  not up to it's predecessor's high calibre but very good all the same .  there is plenty going on , some of the thrills are quite tense and it also proves that you do not need blood and guts to make a good action movie . 
neg@  " spice world " is just one long promotional film for the british girl band the spice girls .  sure there's a hint of humor in there every once in a while .  actually , there's a couple of pretty good jabs at the spice girls .  but overall , who cares ?  not me .  if you don't know by now , the spice girls sing songs of love and friendship and responsibility and girl power , yet dress like streetwalkers from a lower middle class neighborhood .  in " spice world " they ride around in their big tour bus , whining about having to do photo shoots and give interviews .  amazingly , all the talk they do about keeping commitments and upholding responsibilities only really applies to fun things , things they want to do , not things they are required to do to keep earning money .  and they keep babbling about " girl power " when they should really be talking about " cleavage power " .  i mean , if all it takes is girl power , then why are they only one thread away from bursting out of their skimpy outfits ?  the film is pg , but really with only some very minor dialogue changes and scene extentions , you'd have yourself one raunchy adult film .  by the way , there's something in the opening credits which says " based on an idea by the spice girls " .  wow , they got idea credit !  i certainly wish that was a new trend in hollywood . . .  giving credit for simply having the thought " say girls , let's make a movie ! "  the supporting cast fares well .  roger moore ( the real james bond ) mockingly plays the cliche-spewing " chief " of the spice girls , and darn it all , he's fun to watch .  mark mckenney also is good as a screenwriter trying to pitch film ideas to the band's manager ( richard e . grant ) .  one question though : george wendt ?  you'd think that " spice world " would envoke one of two reactions in people .  if you like the spice girls , you'll like them even more afterwards .  and if you can't stand them ( like me ) , then " spice world " will really make you sick .  oddly , the audience i saw the film with , roughly 50 twelve year-old girls , sat in silence for the entire film .  well , not the two who sat directly behind me .  they kept muttering " this is stupid " over and over again .  maybe there is hope for humanity after all .  [pg] 
pos@ synopsis : it's 1977 in a small italian american neighborhood in new york .  disco music is popular , and the sexual revolution is on , but the people of new york are not happy .  in fact , they're terrified .  as in spike lee's do the right thing a heat wave has the city in its grip , and peoples' tempers are flaring .  the cool of night offers no respite : the neighborhood is being terrorized by a nocturnal psychotic killer who calls himself the son of sam .  no one knows who the son of sam is , and no one is safe .  all around new york people are different .  aside from cultural groupings and ethnic neighborhoods there are differences between individuals .  in the italian american section of town a philandering husband named vinny ( john leguizamo ) tries to hide his trysts and sexual behavior from his long suffering newlywed wife dionna ( mira sorvino ) .  vinny's friend ritchie ( adrien brody ) hates disco , works at a gay strip club and doesn't want any of the neighborhood folks to know .  ritchie's girl ruby ( jennifer esposito ) is trying to escape a reputation as a slut .  everyone's different , but nobody in the film wants to be framed as " alien " to the community .  unfortunately , the killings help create a climate of suspicion pits neighbor against neighbor .  opinion : director spike lee's summer of sam is not about a psycho killer .  nor is it about cops trying to apprehend him .  it's about differences and how , given the right conditions , even close neighbors can fan the hostile flames of irrational suspicion .  one thing i found interesting in summer of sam was the use of sex .  in other movies sex is glamorized .  for example , james bond gets a sexual reward for winning .  or boring made-for-video " suspense " movies are spiked with gratuitous lingerie scenes just to keep the audience awake .  and every movie or soap opera character in these flicks seems to have expert sexual prowess .  not so with summer of sam .  in a very gutsy move director spike lee shows sex without fantasy .  sex is there , but it isn't gratuitous or titillating .  in fact , some of the main characters are downright lousy in bed .  sex is in the film because ( sexual ) deviance is part of the film's major theme of " difference " breeding hostility .  in my opinion this kind of movie sex is cutting edge for 1999 , as rare and thought-provoking in american cinema as showing a spanking . 
neg@ alexander dumas' the three musketeers is one of the most often-adapted literary works , and for good reason : the swashbuckler is a legend rather than just a story .  perhaps the musketeer , a new film that " reimagines " the novel in the spirit and style of the matrix , is one adaptation too many .  it's just awful : spiritless , silly and unforgivably boring , transforming the timeless classic into a mish-mash of old-as-time clich ? s and incoherent , repetitive action sequences .  this time , d'artagnan is played by calvin klein model justin chambers , who can't even pronounce his character's name .  as a boy , he watched his father get killed by febre ( tim roth ) , a lackey of power-hungry cardinal richelieu .  he vowed to have vengeance .  after undergoing intense training under an expert swordsman , he goes looking for his enemy .  on his quest , he embroils himself in a struggle for control at the highest levels of the french government .  the royal musketeers have lost their gusto , what with their jobs being taken over by the cardinal's own guards .  only a few loyal swashbuckers remain , among them athos and portos ( who are only figureheads in this movie ) .  together with d'artagnan , they fight to extricate the queen ( catherine deneuve ) from the traps that febre and richelieu are trying to plant .  oh , and as an afterthought , d'artagnan falls in love with the poor maid at the local inn ( mena suvari ) .  just thought i'd mention that .  now , look : i don't know whose idea this was , but whoever is responsible deserves a severe tongue-lashing .  i have nothing against " modernizing " classic works of literature - at the very least , they can inspire viewers to actually read the book - but films as dull as this have no positive side effects .  director peter hyams , known for such masterpieces of modern cinema as timecop and end of days , has jettisoned everything that was great about dumas' masterwork : the sense of excitement , cause , and camaraderie .  instead , we get impressively choreographed but somehow vacuous , uninvolving action sequences that emerge from emptiness and lead to nothing .  when the musketeers finally get to holler " all for one , and one for all , " i could have sworn that was dumas rolling in his grave that i felt .  maybe the reason for the utter lack of suspense here is the hyams's tone , which is unreasonably dark and brooding when you consider the reader's digest condensed version of the story that he gives us .  it's as though anything that may have been construed as " fun " was purposely expunged from the production .  the joylessness of the proceedings , from the oppressively shady lighting to the mechanical fight scenes , can be felt in every frame .  chambers can't act ; suvari , roth and deneuve can , but aren't given the chance .  and when push comes to shove , the use of stunt doubles is distractingly obvious , though at least roth gets to play a villain without having to wear an ape suit .  some movies seem sloppy and careless , clearly made for a quick buck .  with the musketeer we get the sense that it was meticulously crafted to be awful .  the film is intricate , stylish and precise , hitting the wrong note every single time . 
pos@ us critic-type people are always shaking our heads and telling everyone that movies aren't thrill rides , but i think that " back to the future ii " is one of the few exceptions .  if the original film had the spirit of the 1950s , then this has the spirit of the 80s : full of fights ; chase scenes ; cliff hangers ; special effects ; some detective work ; and of course the vision of the high-tech future .  the film picks up exactly where the first film left off , with doc ( lloyd ) , marty ( fox ) , and jennifer ( elizabeth shue ) travelling 30 years into the future , because something bad is going to happen to marty and jennifer's kids .  doc tells marty he must take his son's place at an incident that will cause a chain reaction if marty mcfly jr . says yes to griff ( wilson - in one of four different roles ) .  whoever said history tends to repeat itself wasn't joking , especially when it comes to the movies .  essentially the same chase scene that marty endured in the 50s takes place again in the year 2015 , but it's not as authentically exciting this time because it is so obviously a parody of itself .  at the end of the situation marty has changed the course of history for the better , and it seems like everything's copasetic right ?  wrong .  since when do things go according to plan in the " back to the future " movies ?  there are so many minor conflicts and details that effect the plot and the direction of the story i won't even bother to list them all .  basically we get to see marty as an old man , his house , his family , etc . we also go back to an alternate 1985 , and then back again to 1955 , with everything happening so fast the film never stops to catch a breath .  the films' best aspect is the fact that it actually goes back to the first movie and shows a lot of the action that occurred from another angle .  it's difficult to convey the sense of wild and zany fun without describing every little detail .  the only thing sacrificed in this film is the suspense .  instead of a grand finale , we get lots of little victories .  by the end everything is back to normal , but something happens that leads to yet another sequel , but it doesn't seem gratuitous .   " back to the future part ii " is a really great adventure movie .  it certainly has more originality than other films but it lacks a certain charm that was dominate throughout its predecessor . 
neg@ tri-star ; rated r ( language , sexual situations , violence ) ; 87 minutes  director and writer : darren stein  cast : rose mcgowan , rebecca gayheart , judy greer , julie benz , chad christ , ethan erickson , carol kane , pam grier , tatyana m . ali .  review by : geoff berkshire  jawbreaker is the very definition of a " rip-off . "  this uninspired teen comedy takes equal parts carrie ( 1976 ) , heathers ( 1989 ) and clueless ( 1995 ) and mixes in all the necessary teen movie clich ? s .  along the way writer/director darren stein forgets to give the film a life of its own .  the film opens with a voice over from geeky fern mayo ( judy greer ) about the four most popular girls at reagan high : courtney shayne ( rose mcgowan ) who can basically be summed up as satan in heels , julie freeman ( rebecca gayheart ) a good girl with the face of a supermodel , marcie fox ( julie benz ) a dim-witted blonde who demands that people call her " foxy " , and liz purr ( charlotte roldan ) an angel in disguise .  liz is everyone's favorite because she's both beautiful and kind .  liz is about to turn 17 and , as a prank , courtney convinces the other girls to help her in kidnapping liz on her birthday morning .  in order to keep liz from making any noise courtney stuffs a jawbreaker into her mouth before they gag her .  they then stuff liz in the trunk of courtney's car but when they open it later , polaroid camera waiting to capture the moment , their lives will never be the same : poor liz has swallowed the jawbreaker and choked to death with it lodged in her throat ( the audience is treated to a few too many graphic looks at liz's dead body ) .  courtney , thinking fast , decides to pass the death off as a rape/murder and marcie and a reluctant julie assist her .  things get complicated when fern discovers what the three girls are up to .  in order to keep her quiet courtney comes up with another plan and transforms geeky fern into " vylette " , hoping that she will also help to replace liz in the minds of the devastated students .  up until about this point the film is effective enough .  however , an investigation begins into liz's death and the film becomes excessively dull .  the recently rediscovered talents of pam grier are thoroughly wasted in the role of detective vera cruz and the film is downright insipid in its treatment of both the characters and the audience during this long middle stretch .  courtney's plan to frame a sleazy guy ( marilyn manson , in a brief cameo ) is never believable for a second .  meanwhile , the audience is stuck watching a string of random events which fail to develop the characters or add anything of interest to the plot .  julie leaves the group and begins a lame romance with aspiring actor zack ( chad christ ) .  he apparently gives her the courage to turn on courtney but the way things develop only make julie look stupid .  fern's rise to popularity is equally lame .  we do get the best scene in the film ( the only one with a spark of originality ) during this section .  it's a smart and subversive bit where courtney gets the high school's resident jock stud dane ( ethan erickson ) to demonstrate , using a popsicle , exactly what he would like for her to do to him .  it at least provides us with a look at courtney's personality but the way the scene finishes doesn't make any sense .  stein is very conscious of the teen movie tradition he is working in and not only freely borrows major plot elements but also includes direct acknowledgment of this with some stunt casting .  william katt and p . j . soles ( students in carrie ) are liz's distraught parents , jeff conaway ( from grease ( 1978 ) ) is julie's creepy single dad and carol kane ( the frightened babysitter in when a stranger calls ( 1979 ) ) camps it up as principal miss sherman .  at times jawbreaker feels simply like teen cinema's greatest hits but the audience is cheated with watered down interpretations of the best this genre has to offer .  the only notable aspect of jawbreaker is the incredibly stylish look .  the costume design by vickie brinkford and the production design by jerry fleming are both bright and vivid .  they were apparently instructed to work from the color palette of a jawbreaker and the screen is always splashed with bits of vibrant color .  director of photography amy vicent , who beautifully lensed eve's bayou ( 1997 ) , does a remarkable job here as well .  shot composition and camera movement is consistently impressive .  performances are mostly sub-par with mcgowan providing only a few good moments ( compared with her excellent work in the doom generation ( 1995 ) and scream ( 1996 ) ) and gayheart making the biggest impression due to the sweet nature of her character and her obvious beauty .  none of the actors look as if they have set foot inside a high school within the last five years with the exception of actress/singer tatyana ali , who has a small role as a cheerleader .  the male cast all resemble male models and are credited with names like " auto stud , " " college stud , " and " high school stud #2 . "  the soundtrack is decent and imperial teen's catchy " yoo hoo " makes a bigger impression than any other aspect of the film . 
pos@ whenever studio executives try to combine the successful formula of two blockbuster films , the end result is always a mess of a script , acting , directing , and generally a waste of time for any audience with an average iq above 40 .  the latest movie morass from hollywood , the crew , appeared equally destined to fail , a strange combination of grumpy old men and goodfellas tossed together with the likes of richard dreyfuss and burt reynolds helming the ship .  the scary thing is that it's actually entertaining and a breath of fresh air in this otherwise stale month .  the crew works for several reasons .  the clever script is reminiscent of an old billy wilder movie , following four " past their prime " wiseguys from jersey who now live in the raj mahal apartment house in miami beach .  the wiseguys find themselves being evicted from their " golden paradise " by greedy landlords bent on raising rents for new beach bunnies and boys looking for beachfront property .  the four mobsters , bobby bartellemeo ( richard dreyfuss ) , joey " bats " pistella ( burt reynolds ) , mike " the brick " donatelli ( dan hedaya ) , and tony " mouth " donato ( seymour cassel ) decide to hatch a scheme to plant there a dead body heisted from the morgue in order to drive out the new tenants and keep their home .  this " simple plan " suddenly goes screwy , of course , and the boys become involved with a stripper named ferris ( jennifer tilly ) who wants her stepmother killed , a paranoid latin drug lord who's convinced a mysterious rival is out to get him , and a rat with its tail on fire .  the crew works as a strong comedic vehicle driven by a great ensemble cast of talented character actors and subtle leading men .  instead of concentrating on bobby's search for his daughter , the film gives equal screen time to all four wiseguys , balancing the production .  the acting talents of such screen veterans as dan hedaya , seymour cassel , and the great , great burt reynolds are brought out by each character's uniqueness and synergy within the wiseguy circle .  a strong supporting cast including jeremy piven as a philandering boyfriend/cop/partner and miguel sandoval as the paranoid drug lord provide the most laughs .  the film was produced by barry sonnenfeld and carries a hint get shorty with its energetic camera work by michael dinner , emmy award-winning director of the wonder years .  the quick script written by barry fanaro , screenwriter of kingpin , is carried by plenty of subtly dry humor and wit .  the crew is a prime example of how simple and dry-witted a comedy can get these days .  the great thing is that this comedy does not need to be punctuated by bodily fluids , phallus symbols in the head , or grandmothers giving head in a spa .  in the steady flow of " extreme " comedy these days flowing from hollywood like a broken water main , it's the elder statesmen like dreyfuss , reynolds , and hedaya that can carry a comic arc with only a few weapons of choice - a decent script and good acting . 
neg@ when i originally saw the trailer for " analyze this " a few months ago , i must admit , i thought it looked kind of lame .  and then when the commercials started popping up a week or two ago , i thought it looked outright bad .  but then when " analyze this " finally opened a few days ago , an odd thing happened .  it got great reviews .  critics were proclaiming it " hilarious " and a " dead-on parody of mob movies " .  well , with praise like that , i figured , it must be good and so i headed off to the theater .  you know that expression that says always trust your gut instincts ?  well , turns out that expression is more valid than i ever gave it credit for .   " analyze this " is slow , unfunny , and badly acted .  don't get me wrong , i think that deniro is one of the top ten greatest actors of the century , but he is just out of his league here .  i think the problem is he didn't quite know how to approach this material .  he plays his character , mob boss paull vitti , somewhere in between the realm of comedy and drama .  if he had played the character straight , along the lines of leslie nielson in the " naked gun " series , he probably would have been a lot more successful .  as it is , though , he plays the character completely serious at some moments , and for laughs at others .  this doesn't work .  it creates an uneven character that never breaks out of the deniro mold ; you always know it's him .  and the movie is badly paced , too .  it never takes off .  it just crawls from one scene to another without any forward momentum .  i think the blame for this should be placed on the script .  it's obvious the writer had a good idea for a movie , mob boss faces breakdown and needs the services of a psychiatrist , but once this is established , the movie doesn't really go anywhere .  the formula of the film seems to be this : billy crystal says no to deniro , deniro forces him , and much wackiness ensues .  this formula of sorts is repeated several times throughout the movie .  i've said it before and i'll say it again : the only thing that matters to me in a comedy is whether or not it's funny .  if " analyze this " had been funny , the pacing and bad acting wouldn't have bothered me .  i would have been too busy laughing to notice .  but as it is , i only chuckled a few times .  the only really funny scene is a dead-on parody of " the godfather " .  sadly , though , i don't think anyone in the audience i saw it with realized it was a parody , because i was the only one laughing .  but my sense of humour , i have come to realize , is vastly different from the general population .  i loathed " there's something about mary " , yet loved " baseketball " .  now , if you want a movie that * i * think is funny , go out and see " office space " .  it's full of genuine laughs and won't leave you glancing at your watch every 10 minutes , as " analyze this " did . 
pos@ barely scrapping by playing at a nyc piano bar , timothy hutton returns to his massachusetts hometown for a couple of weeks .  on the surface , he's coming home for a high school reunion , but since this is a movie , you know that he's really looking for some major life decisions .  a fairly " small " film , this sports an impressive ensemble cast including uma thurman , rosie o'donnell and a bunch of actors that you've seen before but can't quite place .  commendable jobs all around ; they seem like real people .  hutton arrives at his past and is greeted by his spirit-dead father , terminally goony brother and old high school chums .  all of his old buddies are engaged in the snow removal business and most are in the midst of a relationship crisis .  the perfect stuff for a comedy about people in the twenties angst .  he meets and falls for the new next door neighbor : a beautiful intelligent lively girl who is obviously taken with him .  the problem is that she is only 13 .  unconsummated ( no , it's not _that_ type of movie ) , their relationship builds and neither knows what to do with it .  star-crossed lovers with no where to go .  so hutton is gaga over a barely-teen , one of his buddies is two-timing his girlfriend with a married old flame , another's girlfriend is sleeping with a meat cutter ( " and she's a vegetarian ! " ) .  things are a mess .  enter uma thurman .  the beautiful stranger in town for a few days is both a delight in the film and one of its minor downfalls .  her character is fun to watch .  even more entertaining is observing the guys falling over themselves trying to impress her .  like the lone ranger , before she leaves , she solves most of the problems and sets everyone onward with their lives .  the ending is a bit too pat .  everything is tied up with a neat little bow .  rosie o'donnell is a stand-out in her limited screen time with her brash personality and " tell it like it is " pronouncements .  structured somewhat like a " diner , a few years later " , this feel-good story is a good time , but ends a little too nice . 
neg@ capsule : annoyingly unentertaining , obvious and paper-thin buddy/cop/drug/sexy-witness movie .  presence of director michael bay shows none of the talent he demonstrated in the rock .  i've seen this movie already , i said , as i looked at the box art .  no , i haven't even seen a trailer for the movie ; i don't even know what it's about , but i can look at the way they're promoting it , and i know i've seen it already .  i thought : it's about these two cops .  and they're buddies , sort of .  they're at each other's throats a lot , but they really do like each other .  and everyone else in their department hates them 'cause they're hot-shots .  and they have some kind of diametric opposition in their relationship .  and one day they're in the middle of cop business as usual when they get mixed up in this plot that involves a really sadistic bad guy with lots of henchmen who can never hit anything with the billions of rounds of ammo they are always carrying .  and the bad guy is a drug lord .  and there's a witness , and she's this sexy thing who rubs both of them the wrong way .  and their supervisor wants their badges for breakfast when they blow up half the town bringing this guy down .  i only missed the bit about the badges .  the rest i got dead-on .  and i hadn't even left the video store yet .  the cops in this movie are will smith and martin lawrence , and the bad guy is the immensely underutilized tcheky karyo .  smith plays a cop who has a trust fund and is thus not a cop for the money ; martin l . is a family man ( shades of the now-tired lethal weapon dynamic here ) whose wife and he are at total odds .  this leads to some strained scenes about lawrence's " not getting any " , and some totally unneccesary bits with him skulking around his own house , thinking his partner is now his wife's " back door man " .  not funny ; tiresome .  bad boys gets some of its incredibly meager selling points from the presence of will smith and martin lawrence .  will smith is a natural , and i'm happy to see him in movies like six degrees . . .  and men in black .  he's funny and charming without trying to be ; he really does seem to be enjoying himself .  martin lawrence is a different story ; he's so uptight and verbally constipated that sitting through his improvised riffs are a trial .  movies like this are not about originality .  i know this .  they are about style and energy and synergy between actors .  i know this , too .  and yet , while watching bad boys , which its glamorous photography and impossibly exact stunt choreography , i felt fed up .  i'd seen con air , which despite being completely implausible , was still great fun , because it tried however feebly to put some new life into the mix .  bad boys is a dry run -- and overlong , too , clocking in at just over two hours with a lot more by-play than i felt could be justified .  i could write this movie .  you could write this movie .  many people have .  many people will continue to write this movie , over and over again .  other people will buy it from them , and make it , and we will pay money to see it .  more the fools we all .  in a terrifyingly prescient line from his book a scanner darkly , phil k . dick once mused that the mcdonaldburger ( as he called it ) would eventually eclipse money as the token of cultural and financial exchange .  one day we will all just sit in our living rooms and sell the same burger back and forth to each other .  the same could be said about this movie .  i have the sinking feeling we're going to see it again .  soon . 
pos@ every once in a while a movie comes along that completely redefines the genre : with dramas , it was citizen kane , with arthouse it was pulp fiction , and with comedy it was , well , that jim carrey guy ( okay , so he's not a movie , but he did have a huge influence on the genre .  not to mention an expensive one . )  sometimes a movie even combines them all into a big , sprawling motion picture event , as did forrest gump four years ago .  with action films , it was aliens , whic was released to much hype seven years after it's equally-innovative parent , alien ( 1979 ) .  directed and written by james cameron ( t2 : judgement day , the abyss , true lies ) , the authority on action films , it was a masterful encore to his sci-fi thriller the terminator ( 1984 ) .  while the original alien film was a dark , enclosed horror film that featured one alien slowly massacering a horrified crew , james cameron took the big-budget action film with aliens , which featured multiple aliens doing basically the same thing , although on a much-larger scale .  and boy , did he take that route !  i'd say at about 165 mph or so . . .  the film opens 57 years after the original , with lt . ripley ( weaver ) being found in her ship in a cryogenic state by a salvage vessel .  if you'll recall , at the end of alien ripley , the only surviving member , cryogenically " hibernated " herself after expelling the rogue alien from her ship .  unfortunately , she thought she'd only be out for a couple of weeks . . .  once she's returned to earth , ripley is quickly interrogated by " the company " , who quickly dismiss her and her stories as lunacy .  in truth , they believe her , as they soon approach ripley with an offer to travel with some marines to a new colony planet as an " alien advisor " .  it seems that the colony planet was a once-breeding ground for the nasty aliens , and now all communication with the planet has been lost . . .  it doesn't exactly take a genius to guess what happens next : ripley agrees , and before you can say " big mistake " , she and the half dozen marines , plus the slimy corporate guy ( reiser ) , who has more than it looks like up under his sleeve , are off to the colony .  when they arrive , they find the planet in ruins .  only one survivor is found , a little girl , newt , who confirms that , yes , the aliens were here and that she only managed to survive by hidding in the ventilation system .  and soon enough , the marines come under attack from the aliens . . .  what happens for the next hour and a half or so is what completely sets this movie apart from any other standard alien sci-fi movie : the action scenes .  cameron directs them so skillfully , and so suspensefully , that you're literally ringing your hands by the time the finale rolls around .  which features , in my opinion , the best fight scene ever recorded on film , as ripley straps herself into a huge robot and battles the nasty queen alien to the death .  many people will tell you that this film , while being a great action film , has no real drama and is all cliches .  well , they would be wrong , my friends .  if this film had no " drama " , then why was sigourney weaver nominated for best actress at the 1987 academy awards ?  that's right , best actress .  you know that any action film that has an oscar nomination attached to it for something other than technical stuff like editing and f/x has got to be good .  in short , aliens combines all the right elements ( great action and f/x , drama , a good plot , good dialogue , and great villains ) into what could arguably be called the best action film of all time .  then again , maybe not .  movies rise and fall from glory and , sad to say , aliens was wrestled from it's throne of best action movie by another cameron film , t2 : judgement day , in 1991 .  so who will be the next king ?  well , let's wait until december 19th and see yet another james cameron film-the highest budgeted film of all time-titanic to make that decision .  i can't wait . 
neg@ tomb raider .  fun ?  exciting ?  challenging ?  given the unprecedented popularity ( especially among teenage boys ) of the video game that sports an uber-buff , pistol packin' babe who raids , well . . .  tombs , you have to believe it's these three things and more !   " lara croft : tomb raider , " the big screen variant of said video game , which features a pumped-up angelina jolie ( the oscar ? winner for " girl , interrupted " no less ) in the title role is , however , none of these things .  it isn't fun , it isn't exciting , and the only challenge is seeing how long you can stay in your seat ( i suffered through to the bitter , bitter end ; the wife opted for barnes & noble at the 45-minute mark ) .  directed by simon west with the same subtlety he brought to " con air , " " tomb raider " is an empty-headed , big budget bore .  the story borrows unintelligently from that mother of all turkeys " hudson hawk " ( the same hokum about planetary alignments and sacred stones that , when brought together , well . . .  who the heck cares ? ) and it makes " super mario bros . " ( bob hoskins' ill-advised career move ) look like " rocco and his brothers " ( that classic of italian neo-realism ) .  i'll go out on a limb here and say i suspect there's actually more character development in the video game than the movie proper .  this is where the jolie defenders/video game nuts jump in and say this movie isn't about character development it's about kicking serious butt ( or bum , since ms . croft hails from england's green and pleasant ) .  with lips , breasts , and biceps all inflated to the max , lara croft is all about posturing , and jolie has a hard time simply standing still without trying to look tough .  ok , let's forget challenging .  shouldn't " tomb raider " be , at the very least , fun and exciting ?  shouldn't our butt-kicking heroine also encompass the sophistication of , say , james bond with the wit of indiana jones ?  there's no humor to be found anywhere in " tomb raider , " even though it tries hard from time to time .  even " the mummy returns " didn't take itself too seriously .  the villain here is noticeably lacking , the special effects are ridiculously overblown and unnecessarily complicated , and the script is non-existent .  to liven things up ( perhaps ) , jolie's live father jon voight puts in a few minutes as lara's dead father lord croft ; talk about a stretch .  one thing i hadn't expected from the film is that jolie affects a slightly better english accent than her pa ( although i suspect that thin-looking moustache he's forced to wear gets in the way some ) .  unsuccessful ? not entirely .  if anything , " lara croft : tomb raider " makes you want to check out the video game itself to figure out exactly what all the fuss was about . 
pos@ meet joe black is your classic boy-meets-girl , boy-likes-girl , boy-gets-killed-in-horrible-accident , supernatural-entity-takes-over-boy's-body , supernatural-entity-falls-in-love-with-girl story .  based on the 1934 film death takes a holiday , meet joe black is a well acted romantic drama which explores the meanings of life and love .  william parrish ( anthony hopkins ) is a billionaire businessman on the brink of his 65th birthday .  he has built a huge media empire , and raised two beautiful daughters , allison ( marcia gay harden ) and susan ( claire forlani ) .  william has been able to negotiate his way out of many tough spots . . . but he has suddenly begun fearing his own mortality , the one situation he won't be able to talk his way out of .  and he has good reason to fear , for death himself is stalking him .  however , death has a deal to make .  death has taken possession of a man who has recently died ( brad pitt ) , and wants william to be his guide in a holiday among the living .  in return , william gets to live a few extra days .  of course , he agrees .  death , under the human name of " joe black " , gets to experience life as a complete innocent .  he never before has experienced the simple pleasures of a springy matters or peanut butter .  and he's not quite compared for the more complex pleasures when he and susan fall in love .  but , is their affair doomed to an early demise ?  at nearly three hours in length , meet joe black is a little bit on the leisurely side , though it never gets boringly lengthy .  instead , the film gets a chance to develop some nicely textured characters and situations .  you get to soak in and enjoy the atmosphere , rather than being hurriedly rushed through it .  the romantic angle works well , though , surprisingly , the interactions between joe black and william parrish are more interesting than those with his daughter .  this is most likely due to anthony hopkins , who once again displays his superb acting skills .  william is a desperate man who has had a seemingly ideal life , and doesn't want to let it go .  by contrast , claire forlani is merely the romantic interest .  she gets to show joe the ropes of love , but is hardly as interesting a character .  as joe black , brad pitt seems a bit stilted .  granted , he's supposed to be out-of-place , but the overly formal technique used by pitt begins to distract from the role .  still , he is able to hold his own , and over the course of the three hours , his character begins to grow on you .  the main character who seems out of place here is drew ( jake weber ) , an ambitious executive in williams' company who is joe black's main rival for susan's affections .  weber plays the character with a hammy relish reminiscent of snidley whiplash .  this cartoonish foil an aberration in a film filled many more dimensional characters .  the supernatural elements of the film are handled murkily , but never distractingly so .  we never learn what is the exact nature of death , or why he's never done something like this before .  it actually gets a bit creepy when death talks to the dying in their own voices/accents .   ( his initial conversations with hopkins sound shockingly like hannibal lecter . . . )  and the ultimate resolution to one of the film's supernatural problems seems , well , somewhat superficial .  still , even with the film's length , it was a pleasant time at the movies , something you wouldn't necessarily expect from a film about death . . . but one which meet joe black delivers anyhow . 
neg@ the swirling sick feeling hit me just a few minutes into " heartbreakers . "  ray liotta's character was making out with his secretary when his new wife knocked on the door of his office .  while scrambling to collect himself , he frantically shouted to her , " just wait a sex ? er , i mean sec ! "  i was struck by a wave of revulsion , thinking , " geez , didn't lines like that die when 'three's company' was canceled ? "  over the next few minutes , as the barely double entendres and lingering cleavage shots grew more numerous , i realized that the mindset behind " heartbreakers " predated " three's company . "  suddenly , i had an out-of-body experience as my internal way-back machine swept me to the mid-1960s .  all across america , the counter-culture was growing like wildfire , but there was scant evidence of it on tv .  while young people were challenging traditional values on the streets , frustrated teenagers like me were stuck at home , sulking while our parents enjoyed the latest bob hope special .  women in skimpy bathing suits would prance onscreen while hope made growling noises and leered at their breasts .  on another channel , dean martin made wisecracks about " booze and broads " and peter lawford , decked out in love beads and a nehru jacket , purred suggestive one-liners as he ogled the go-go dancers .  the adults laughed and laughed .   " heartbreakers " reeks of that stagnant mentality , from its lingering shots of jennifer love hewitt's vah-vah-voom breasts to its leaden screenplay , which paints women as haughty schemers and men as drooling buffoons too sex-obsessed to realize they are being manipulated .  in addition to liotta and hewitt , the cast includes sigourney weaver , gene hackman , jason lee , nora dunn and anne bancroft .  i can't imagine what drew performers of their caliber to this project .  perhaps they thought it was a parody of the sniggering sex comedies of the '60s .  if so , they were sadly mistaken .  the story revolves around a mother-daughter con-team .  it opens with the marriage of max ( weaver ) to dean ( liotta ) , a new jersey chop shop operator .  having withheld sex until the honeymoon , max pretends to pass out on their wedding night .  the next morning , she feigns illness , sending a very horny dean off to the office , where he ends up in the arms of his new secretary .  just as the two are about to get overtly physical , max bursts into the room and catches them .  the " horrified " bride dissolves the union , garnering a healthy cash settlement along the way .  of course , the secretary was really her daughter page ( hewitt ) and the whole thing was a set-up .  the women move on , but an irs agent ( bancroft ) catches up with them and demands a huge amount of money to cover unpaid taxes .  in desperate need of funds , max and page head for palm beach to replay the scam .  their mark this time is william b . tensy ( hackman , in hideous make-up ) , a decrepit tobacco tycoon obsessed with the joys of smoking .  max starts to put the game into action , but page is so repelled by the old man ( and angry with her mom ) that she slips off to enact her own score , targeting jack , a laid back young beach bar owner who is worth a fortune .  complications arise when page realizes that good-natured jack is stirring actual emotions in her steely little heart .  as if that wasn't enough , dean reappears on the scene with revenge on his mind .  the attempt to weld a romance onto a caper comedy served only to remind me of the infinitely superior " a fish called wanda . "  i won't bother to compare the two .  suffice to say that everything done right in " wanda " is done wrong here .   " heartbreakers " is soulless , inept and , at 123 minutes , at least a half-hour too long .  sigourney weaver and jennifer love hewitt throw themselves into their parts , but have nowhere to go with the metallic characters .  gene hackman is utterly wasted in a one-note , one-joke part that has him doing nothing but smoking , coughing and waxing rhapsodic about smoking and sex .  poor jason lee is stuck in the ingenue role and the normally charismatic actor comes off as merely bland .  ray liotta manages to squeeze a tiny bit of humanity and humor into his walking clich ? , but only a bit .  the low point in the film has weaver employing a russian accent bad enough to make boris and natasha wince , while doing half-assed slapstick with a broken off penis from a statue .  bear in mind , though , that this is merely the worst segment of a movie made up of nothing but low points .  if you remember bob hope specials with fondness , this might be your cup of tea .  as for me , i'm going to watch " a fish called wanda " now and try to forget i ever saw " heartbreakers . " 
pos@ the cryptic teaser trailer has been unspooling in moviehouses for quite sometime now : " it mu5t be found . "  so what , exactly , is the fifth element ?  after seeing luc besson's ambitious , much-shrouded-in-secrecy science fiction fantasy , i could not help but be let down by the actual answer , which is not nearly as exciting nor clever as one would think .  but what is far from a letdown is the film as a whole , a wildly imaginative feast for the senses that does what all the best science fiction films do--create a universe unlike any other presented on the silver screen .  the biggest irony of the fifth element is that the one thing that has been kept under such tight wraps--the actual storyline--is the most conventional , dismayingly so , element ( pun intended ) of the film .  speaking in the vaguest possible terms , the basics of the plot are as follows : in the year 2259 , a great force of evil threatens to consume the earth , and only the four elements--earth , wind , fire , and water--united with a fifth element can stop it .  figuring into all of this are new york cabbie korben dallas ( bruce willis ) ; a shady , southern-drawling entrepreneur by the name of zorg ( the hilariously hammy gary oldman , picking up where he left off in besson's the professional ) ; a priest ( ian holm ) ; and a mysterious creature named leeloo ( milla jovovich ) .  all of the pieces come together in a tidy and somewhat underwhelming--and unsurprising--fashion , but there is no denying that this basic story holds some intrinsic interest .  what remains interesting and exciting , however , after brief glimpses is the fascinating world besson has created with production designer dan weil , director of photography thierry arbogast , visual effects supervisor mark stetson , and the crew at digital domain .  the look is absolutely mesmerizing right from the opening moments to the last .  the frenzied cityscape of new york , with its vibrant day-glo colors , tall buildings penetrating high into the clouds , and the swarm of cars , cabs , and other vehicles flying through labyrinthian skyways , is absolutely breathtaking to behold , especially in a wild car chase sequence early on in the film .  but it would not have been a completely captivating vision if the people inhabiting the settings weren't equally as interesting , and are they ever .  in addition to the exotic menagerie of alien creatures that populate this world , from bulky robots to dog-like mangalores , the humans are outfitted in costumes by eccentric designer jean-paul gaulthier , best known for creating madonna's pointy bustier get-up in her blonde ambition tour .  gaulthier's outlandish creations , such as a number worn by leeloo made entirely out of white straps , feel more at home in besson's futuristic vision than on any fashion runway in the world ; they add to the sense of otherworldliness about the film .  while besson's bold vision is the biggest virtue of the film , it also could be its biggest obstacle to reaching a mass audience .  for all its imagination , certain things about the film may be a bit too quirky and bizarre .  i really do not know what middle america will make of the most outrageous character of the film , ruby rhod ( chris tucker ) , a flamboyant disc jockey who makes dennis rodman look conservative--he makes a raucous entrance dressed in an animal print dress , sporting a blonde hairdo in the shape of a hair dryer , speaking in high pitches at rapid fire speed .  at first this character's hyper energy is funny , but the act wears out its welcome very quickly .  not irritating , but just as strange , is a musical number by blue-skinned alien chanteuse diva ( maiwenn lebesco ) , who sings--and dances--an aria that is an unlikely blend of classical opera and techno .  the tune , as with the entirety of longtime besson collaborator eric serra's innovative score , is haunting , but it is also completely jarring .  then there are the campy touches of humor besson and co-scripter robert mark kamen sprinkle throughout , which too often are silly and forced ; a comic sexual encounter between ruby rhod and a flight attendant is highly distracting and not very funny , to boot .  the story's weakness shines through in the climax and conclusion of the fifth element .  while still visually and aurally spectacular , the events detailed are not as exciting nor powerful as they should be .  the big , serious dramatic climax was met with more than a few snickers , and it ambitiously strives for a profundity which the film had not even begun to work toward .  as such , at the end there is a sense that there was something bigger at work here , that there was still more left to be said about this story and these characters .  this suspicion was confirmed by besson himself , who told me in the lobby following the screening ( imagine that , the filmmaker watching the film with the " enemy " --the critics ) that what had made it to the screen was really just the first half of the lengthy original fifth element screenplay and that the second half--now titled mr . shadow--is still waiting to be made .  still , despite the story problems , the fifth element is an artistic triumph for luc besson ; rarely does a filmmaker's original vision come to the screen in all its audacious , undiluted glory .  it is a fascinating example of how of one artist's fervid imagination can transport an audience into an intoxicating fantasy world generally seen only in dreams . 
neg@ plot summary : the year is 2024 .  the ozone layer has long since gone and the earth is now protected from radiation by a shield invented by connor mccleod .  the shield , although saving lives , has made the atmosphere hot and humid .  connor is a mortal and a tired old man who has given up hope .  on returning from the opera one night connor is accosted by the leader of a " terrorist " organisation .  they have tried to find out what the company that now runs the shield unit are covering up .  connor is then attacked by two assassins sent by katana from the planet zeist ( like zeit--get it ? ) .  they fail and connor becomes immortal again by chopping their heads off .  he then brings ramirez back to life in glencoe in scotland .  both ramirez and connor are rebel leaders back on zeist and have been sent to earth as punishment .  connor now has the option to return being the last one but opts to stay with his new found immortality and fight to find out about the company and the shield .  katana meanwhile , fearing connor would return , sets out himself to kill the highlander .  if you have never seen it .  being a fan of highlander and mr . connery , i was in the cinema as soon as i could to see highlander ii : the quickening .  i wish it had been quicker .  i feel whatever else you can say about a film ( bad script bad music , etc . ) if you sit just plain bored through most of it then nothing much else needs to be said .  the film was short but in my opinion only twelve minutes or so ( the time mr . connery is on the screen for ) is worth watching .  the plot sounds a little ridiculous but i was willing to give it a chance .  maybe they could pull it off .  instead , i find that the characters have completely changed from those in the first film .  it's as if they are different people with the same names .  witness connor jumping into bed with the leader of the resistance -- where is the attitude of " who wants to live forever , when love must die " gone to ?  the love sub-plot * must * have had footage cut out .  the highlander and ramirez both seemed aware of powers they had never mentioned before .  putting our heroes in deadly situations and then having them walk away because of some new power is very annoying .  i still want to know why connor's coat becomes flame proof when he is immortal !  we are not given enough time on zeist to believe in it , nor are we told why advanced aliens still use swords to kill .  why not dynamite or laser saws or just plain bullets followed by a quick chop to the neck ?  i know the head needs to come off but you could at least immobilise your opponent with laser rifles first .  to be fair one assassin tried this but he must be the world's worst shot .  meanwhile connor develops luke-skywalker-like powers of laser beam deflection .  as for " bad guys , " we see a rebellion on zeist , crushed easier than a grape and then the rest of the plot depends on katana being obsessed with killing mccleod in case he returns to zeist .  two assassins are sent , presumably they are meant to be good at killing but an aged connor kills them both with no problems .  no more assassins are sent .  katana , supposedly a very powerful man goes himself to kill connor .  has he no more assassins ?  has he no better ?  why was the rebellion crushed so easily then ?  michael ironside is totally unconvincing ( bring back the kurgan ) .  he seems like a cartoon character and really isn't that evil , just stupid and violent .  we see the hollywood trick of the chief nasty threatening a child again and killing lots of innocents .  yet he still seems like no threat -- perhaps because he seems too stupid to threaten connor , or maybe because his two best assassins wouldn't have been amiss with larry , curly and mo .  so much for plot and characters .  the music is atrocious .  it is at best intrusive and at worst annoying .  bring back queen .  there was an audible sigh ( of relief ? )  when connor played a queen track in a juke box .  i believe this at least is to be corrected for the american release .  the acting is at best flat , except for mr . connery .  lambert is uninteresting and when he delivered " there can be only one " this time around it just made me wish there had only been one -- highlander .  michael ironside is unconvincing ; sorry , michael , i usually like you and everyone else was incredibly forgetable .  so why 2/10 ?  visually the film is interesting at all times .  it has a blade runner feel to it and some of the special effects are quite stunning .  add to this an irrepressible sean connery who smiles throughout the whole film -- or is he smirking to himself ?  his lines and delivery might make the film worthwhile had it not been so obvious that he cannot take the whole thing seriously at all but hey -- * i'd * have done it for 12 million .  oh , and i agree with a previous reviewer , she * does * look like sharon stone but i believe it is her first film .  incidentally there is a line producer credited and i hear rumours of highlander iii : the wizard . 
pos@ the characters in " palmetto " collectively sweat enough to fill lake erie , and it's just the right way to capture the film's ripe atmosphere of sensuality , tension and even farce .  this humid florida-set thriller nurtures a modestly absurd edginess that often winks at itself , which is very much a good thing since the actors and director are in on the joke .  as far as set-up is concerned , the movie is nothing we haven't seen before , but be patient -- " palmetto " spins some pretty wicked story twists that we really don't see coming .  it's not a classic by any means , but it sure is quite an engaging surprise .  harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is fresh out of prison , where he's served a couple of years for a crime he didn't commit .  even though he harbors animosity towards the obtuse local officials , harry's first order of business is to return to his home town of palmetto to be with his sculptor girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) .  while searching for work , he catches the eye of rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue ) , the mysterious sexbomb wife of a palmetto millionaire .  rhea proposes a scheme that'll get harry $50 , 000 easy -- to play a small part in the staged kidnaping of her jailbait stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny ) .   " you do like risks , don't you , mr . barber ? "  rhea alluringly coos .  boys , form a line behind me .  part of " palmetto " 's success can be attributed to the performance of elisabeth shue , who demonstrates here that her oscar-nominated turn in " leaving las vegas " might merely be foreshadowing great things to come .  shue's a seductive , campy delight , and pulls off a barbara stanwyck-gloria swanson combo with admirable relish .  the other actors form a solid ensemble around her , including sevigny ( " kids " ) , tantalizingly slutty as a teen tease , as well as the ever-likeable gershon , cast a far cry from her extreme roles in " bound " and " showgirls . "  harrelson is still doing fine follow-up work to " the people vs . larry flynt . "   " palmetto " does have its share of grievances .  harrelson's narration is needless , i suppose , and gershon's nina cries to be meatier than she ultimately is .  one of the plot's unexpected angles -- that harry is asked by the police to become the press liaison for the very crime in which he's involved -- could have been played a little better .  there are moments when you question the tone , but it's never so unstable that it deserves the reproach it's been receiving from most other critics .  if " palmetto " didn't want to be laughed at , would it really have tacked on a climax that plays like a live-action " who framed roger rabbit " ?  although a few elements can be questioned , the movie works well on its own terms .  thanks to a juicy cast -- especially shue -- and the nifty material approach from director volker schlondorff ( you remember him from last summer's suddenly re-popular " the tin drum , " right ? ) ,  everything runs smoothly .  and for fans of revelation-heavy endings , this film's got a few shocks in store that i won't even dream of revealing .   " palmetto " is a generous amount of fun to watch , and that's all you need to know . 
neg@ not a great twelve months for either of the principals from this movie .  earlier this year , nora ephron wrote and produced one of the year's least likeable " comedies " called hanging up , featuring a bunch of annoying women ( ironically , lisa kudrow played one in that film as well ) who barely have time to care about anyone but themselves .  ick . . . real  sweet stuff .  but her little unsuccessful project was nothing compared to what john travolta went through earlier this summer , with a film entitled battlefield earth .  i seemed to be the only person on this planet who somehow appreciated the film , even if it was on a " cheese " factor , as everybody , and i mean everybody else , pretty much classified the movie as one of the worst disasters of all time .  yipes . . . another  beauty .  so what happens when you put these two people in the same room and come out with a movie co-starring the ever-versatile lisa kudrow ?  uhhhm , you guessed it . . . not  much .  plot : in order to escape major financial difficulties , a local weatherman hooks up with his ball-picking lotto girlfriend and rigs the state lottery .  but as more and more people find out about their scheme , more and more people demand a part of their winnings , and more and more problems arise .  critique : simply stated , i didn't laugh once during this entire picture .  for a comedy , it offered me a few smiles , a bunch of nincompoops as characters , a miscast john travolta hamming it up and lisa kudrow , in what can only described as a " sluttier " version of her character of phoebe on tv's " friends " .  this film was not as disastrous as i thought it would be , but it was pretty close .  thankfully , the clips of travolta dressed up in goofy outfits , dancing as the weatherman were left in the film's trailer , and not in this final cut .  and not unlike the worst movie of the year so far , beautiful , this film also managed to feature many unsympathetic , idiotic and just plain irritating characters in its cast .  foremost was travolta's character , who declined to give us any reason to care for him once in the entire movie .  and for me , the casting choice of john travolta for this role was just plain wrong .  he didn't fit the part .  i just saw him in get shorty the other day and thought about how perfect he was for that role .  a cool , calculating roughneck with a certain hip , suave " je ne sais quoi " .  in this film , he looks like he's trying to be funny , trying to be bad , trying to be good .  we're not supposed to be able to notice that , and when we do , at least in my case , i consider it a wrong choice in casting .  add that to lisa kudrow , boring us with yet another one of her patented " dumb blonde " routines , but this time , dressed in sexier outfits .  michael rapaport , stretching one small acting muscle to play the guy who isn't quite up at the same speed level as everyone else .  and a truckload of empty comedic bullet shells , and you've got yourself an extremely quiet audience anticipating punch lines that never quite materialize .  the only real good thing that i could say about this film is that its story was actually half-interesting and never really bored me .  i also liked michael moore's perverted cousin character , and i loved , and i say it again , loved the character that bill pullman played .  give this dude his own movie !  he played a lazy cop , a man who tries everything not to do any real work .  he fakes injuries to get off duty , tries to avoid arrest situations so that he won't have to fill out any forms . . . now  there's a base of humor .  sadly , the filmmakers decided to bring him into play with only about half an hour left in the film .  and there's not much else i can say about this movie , folks .  on the whole , it was lame , included a slew of unlikable characters fiddling around in a pool of unfunny lines , and very little of interest for any target audience .  but get somebody to write up a movie featuring that lazy cop played by pullman and i'm there ! 
pos@ it's been a good long while since we had a good old fashioned thriller , where mostly everything goes right for the audience and wrong for the characters , but it's been even longer since i saw a thriller that actually * shock * cared for the characters , not merely judged them but actually allowed their human foibles , flaws , and strengths to emerge so radiantly .  i'd saw that it's been at least a couple decades , even as far back to the great hitchcock thrillers , though i'm hardly comparing " a simple plan " to , say , " rear window " or " strangers on a train . "  yet it's almost as good .  it's simple , yet strangely complex , and astonishingly rewarding , because instead of moving from plot point to plot point , and merely laying out they-might-be-caught overtones , it instead concerns itself with the moral corruption and depths of greed that its protagonists can go to , all without ever judging them as either evil or even immoral .  elegantly directed by sam raimi ( yes , the same ) , " a simple plan " concerns itself with the discovery of a crashed plane and within a bag full of millions of dollars by an upright , moderately financially stable working man ( bill paxton ) , his dim-witted brother ( billy bob thornton ) , and his drinking buddy ( brent briscoe ) .  without anyone around , and the possibility that no one would come looking for it , the three debate and debate but finally reach the decision that yes , they will keep it , but until any authorities or possible owners of the cash come looking , and so they generally don't flaunt anything they don't want to flaunt , they'll keep it stored away in the custody of paxton .  the possibilites of this circumstance are much diverse : a ) they could endlessly play cat and mouse with the authorities ; b ) they could try to fight off the rightful owners , who are either villainous or just ; or c ) they could fight amongst themselves .   " a simple plan , " though borrows a little from each of these .  a little tiff with the cops here , a subplot involving an alleged fbi agent ( a chilling gary cole ) there ) , and a bit of inside feuding over here .  but , as austin powers would say , that's not necessarily its bag ( baby ) .  what i most admired about this film , and what makes this a far superior and unique thriller is that it's successfully able to have its cake and eat it too .  it effectively involves some of the traditional thriller cliches , like the ones mentioned above , but at the same time , it involves itself more deeply with the way the characters become morally corrupt and what price they have to pay to have what they think is happiness in a black duffle bag .  so while steps are taken to neatly cover things up , and these subsequent steps go miserably awry , the film choses to never loose the sight that in covering things up to the extent that these characters have to , they are slowly losing their souls and their humanity .  in one early scene , paxton and thornton have to make a trip back to the plane to return some of the money so it doesn't look like it was all stolen ( not a bad idea ) , when thornton screws up ( as he does continuously throughout the movie ) , and paxton has to do some major covering-up ( read : homicide ) .  instead of a quick murder and immeadiate hands-washing , raimi shows a lengthy , painful shot from a low-angle onto paxton's face as he tries to sift through his emotions and reach a conclusion .  there's a similar shot afterwards of paxton watching the murder he's committing and taking in all the horror which is also wonderfully effective , but the previous shot is even better : more morally complex and more gut-wrenching .  in short , probably the best piece of direction raimi's ever done , demonstrating once again that sometimes the simplest way to do something yields the best results ( for further proof , watch " persona " 's " sex scene " and witness what may be the best scene ingmar bergman's ever done ) .  but the film hardly stops here ; it follows completely through and rarely loses sight of its characters humanity and the depletion thereof .  yet it also moves from step to step in such a graceful method that we never feel like the film is merely stamping out the plot points of the story .  when the time comes for paxton to start becoming selfish and thus diabolical ( with aid from his pregnant wife , played by bridget fonda , a pal to raimi ) , he does , and soon the horror of the situation is escalating to tragic heights .  there's at least two grand shootouts , and at least one of them may be one of the greatest shootouts in cinema history , and when they arrive , they don't come with masochistic delight but with cringe-inducing horror .  during the one , i was actually sinking into my chair , with the mantra " they can't do this , can they ? "  streeming through my head .  in fact , this film , which is getting many comparisons to the coen's [superior , but forget about it] " fargo , " has many similar moments of manic insanity , attributed to the major amount of subtlety and restraint with which the directors direct what , in other hands , would be over-the-top distractedness ( imagine , i suppose , robert rodriguez directing this . . . then  again , after seeing the " evil dead " films , i'd hardly assume raimi would be able to pull something like this off , although there are moments of the film which are easily dubbed " raimi " moments , a rifle-shot notwithstanding ) .  instead , raimi directs with maturity and a gentle touch , easily letting the story and characters co-exist , while still letting some of the more traditional raimi elements come out , like some offbeat comic touches .  most particularly , billy bob thornton's character , jacob , is a brilliant creation .  his dim-wittedness is often hilarious ( for most of the film , every line he uttered was greeted with howling laughter ) , but there's authenticity to the performance that strangely enough makes sure that we're not totally laughing at him .  the chuckles he gets are not necessarily ones of full-condescension because thornton is so damn real .  jacob's a multi-dimensional character , and while being stupid , we see that as not so much a flaw , but a strength to his character : his simplicity is endearing and many of the acts he commits are out of a strong inner strength and belief system , primarily towards the middle where his bud and co-conspirator begins to make some heavy waves concerning the money .  the final third of the film spends much time with him , and many of the touches upon his character , not only by thornton but also by screenwriter scott b . smith ( adapting his own book , by the way ) are just great .  i particularly admired a back story about an old high school girlfriend , told by thornton with such sincerity and acception that the cruel story is reversed to near-sweetness and further strength of his saddened character .  thornton is absolutely brilliant in this performance , by far the best performance he's ever given and further proof that he's the best character actor in contemporary cinema ( if you don't believe me , go back and watch his wonderful performance in " primary colors , " a performance that would have been nominated for an oscar if this hadn't been in the same year ) because he's easily able to slip into a character , and make him completely and utterly believable .  he brings so much weight to the film that , as it is with most character actors , it's difficult picturing anyone else in the role .  the rest of the cast is great too , from paxton's declining working man to chelcie ross' amiable town sheriff .  even fonda shows off her talents nicely .  and if i had any complaints about the film , it's that the plot is almost too simplistic , and that at times , it seems too much like an exercise , like a cruel test on humanity that still pays attention to the humanity involved .  and the occasional narration is , as it usually is , annoying ( narration should be used with extreme caution , especially when you're trying to set things up and/or express emotions - didn't raimi watch the first murder scene ? ) .  and , the thing that can most usually go wrong with a movie , the ending is basically amiss .  i won't reveal it , but it's way too cruel and too much of an outsider set-up , as if the appearance of a plane wasn't already too much of that anyway .  for a film that deals so much and so intimately with the humanity of the characters involved , this is the wrong ending .  imagine a character-controlled ending ; otherwise , it's like if in " crime and punishment " if the police had caught him instead of him breaking down and confessing . . . not that i'm at all comparing " a simple plan " to dostoevsky .  the ending does work , despite my protestations , but to me , there was something incessantly nagging and unsatisfying about it ; but if you had no qualms and were happy as a clam with it , then just ignore me and go about your day .  but despite my mere claims , make no mistake that i was completely and utterly edge of my seat throughout , and even sometimes curdling up by the situations that occured , not because of any kind of gore factor ( which is , thankfully for this , very minimal ) , but because the film places its characters in situations and gives them such painful things to overcome that i've frankly not seen much like it in quite awhile .  at least not since the previous worthy hitchcockian masterpiece . 
neg@ pre-review note : seeing as the only concern of body shots is " sex " , i will be forced to refer to that particular act innumerable times throughout the duration of this review .  because of this , i will try to vary word descriptions of " sex " ( meaning if you are offended by pejorative terms , and \ or your name is jerry falwell , you are kindly invited to hit the x up on the left corner of your screen ) , so if there happens to be a word you come across and cannot comprehend , fret not , it's most likely just another way of referring to " sex " .  i think we'd all agree that any word used incessantly becomes a bit monotonous so i hope you appreciate my attempt to liven up what could potentially be a very boring review .  though not as boring as the movie which makes steve forbes flat tax plan seem as lively as watching a naked mathew mconaughy play the bongos while high on god knows what .  body shots is a film so frightened of coitus that scenes of copulation are filmed ominously , in the way you'd normally expect to see a violent attack .  it's about people who think about screwing , seek it out , and talk about it .  these are things we all do , sometimes .  the characters in this film spend every waking moment pondering the simplicities of sexual acts .  their lives center around the next sexual encounter , but they seemed depressed .  it's as if fucking is all they have to look forward to after a busy workweek .  at its core body shots is a message movie , the kind of thing i could picture really progressive church groups showing to middle schoolers in order to turn them off coition .  michael cristoffer ( who directed gia , another film that treated bumping uglies as if it where evil ) is a moralist with nothing new to say .  his characters don't communicate anything of interest to each other , so cristoffer gives them an opportunity to let out their inner thoughts by speaking directly into the camera .  they voice simplistic platitudes like " i like to come " or " sex without love equals violence " .  huh ?  and yes that is as complex as this movie's observations get .  the characters are stupid and shallow , with not one registering as anything more .  the plot concerns vapid over sexed twentysomethings on an all night hunt for carnal pleasure , then the after math ( the morning after ) of such events .  we meet the characters as they speak directly to us , confiding in us with their idiotic ruminations on intimacy .  i would normally go into the characters and the actors who play them , giving you the pros and cons , but for this film i cannot .  i'm not trying to be clever or witty , but i honestly hardly remember anything that would set them apart from the others .  with the exception of trent ( played by ron livingston as a bargain basement patrick bateman ) , the rest fade into each other-- a patchwork of fake breasts , defined abs , pearly white teeth , and creamy , flawless skin .  i vaguely recall brad rowe as the sensitive one , only because his character gets the worst lines ( " sex without love equals violence " ) .  in between all the confessionals , cristoffer films everything like a headache commercial , with blurry slo mos and dramatic head turning .  the fact that this director at one point won a pulitzer prize completely baffles me .  this film is made without one iota of intelligence or insight into the generation that its tag line claims to be defining .  if body shots is meant to say that all twentysometyhings are idiotic and f * * k-obsessed , fine , i don't have any problem with a film that tries to persuade me to think a certain way , but cristoffer only gives us one side .  additionally that one side isn't even entertaining ; the characters indulge in buggery without an ounce of sexiness .  or realism .  one sexual encounter takes place outside a club on a chain link fence between the two most sensitive characters .  they suddenly have vigorous intercourse with each other for no apparent reason ( other than that they both happen to be standing next to each other ? ? ? alas , if it could only be that easy ? ? ? kidding of course ) , then , not only isn't it erotic , it isn't real .  it doesn't feel like an authentic sexual encounter .  every f * * k scene in this film ( and there are many ) is treated in the same unsexy manner .  body shots makes fornication dirtier than the most scummy porno film .  it shows us none of the pleasure that should go along with it , and most of all , it fails to show us why its characters love making it so much if they seem to hate the act of actually doing it .  the resulting search for nookie ( and you can take that cookie ? ? ? ) over one night leaves us with several tedious plot lines to follow .  the main concern is much ado over a rape that may or may not have occurred .  the film shows us two separate versions of the possible rape ( one where it is consensual the other where it is not ) and in both versions the young actress playing the possible victim gets her shirt torn off .  this is a topic that could be interestingly explored if done intelligently , and if memory serves me i can't think of one film that has done so , and yes i saw the accused which may be one of the most overrated movies of the 80's next to wall street .  unfortunately nobody gives us reason to care , not the writer , the director or the actors nearly all of whom seem to have wandered off the set of a noxious 90210 spin off .  paul thomas anderson approached boogie nights in a manner similar to what cristoffer does here , though boogie nights succeeded .  it was similarly moralistic , but it gave us two different viewpoints ; it showed us how the lifestyle of porn enticed its characters , and it showed us the possible fall-out of such a decision .  the characters in boogie nights were as idiotic as the characters are here , but anderson seemed to care about them .  he gave them heart .  cristoffer gives them nothing but raging hormones .  he preaches to us , by using his characters to preach to us .  this is not the way to get any message across .  why not just direct a public service announcement on the perils of hittin' skins ?  cristofer kind of does that , though without an ounce of insight , and with a helping of leering exploitation . 
pos@ as any sociologist will attest , your childhood and the types of parents that you have will heavily influence your happiness as an adult .  parents that are supportive and environments that are nurturing will yield children who will embrace the values and norms that can allow them to live healthy and productive lives .  but if your upbringing is marred with violence , hate and dysfunctionality , then your journey towards a happy adulthood will be saddled with psychological obstacles almost too great to overcome .  `affliction' explores how a man never truly escapes the grip of an unforgivingly nightmarish childhood .  the man in question is wade whitehouse ( nick nolte ) .  here is a man who is like any other citizen on the surface .  he is a productive member of the community and goes about his daily routine much like you and me .  but as you scratch beneath the surface , something scary and evil begins to rear its ugly head .  we see that he is a mean-tempered person .  he has a hard time taking control of his emotions , which usually gets the better of him .  he is quick to apologize for his actions and wants to be a gentle person , but something is sparking a tendency towards violence .  he also has tremendous problems with relationships .  he is divorced and his only connection to love is his daughter .  but his bearish persona and stature alienates her .  he is visibly shaken by her rejection even though she says that she loves him .  his demeanor also puts his relationship with a local townsgirl ( sissy spacek ) at risk .  she tries to remain true to him and supportive , but for women unlucky enough to attach themselves to this kind of person , relationships will ultimately end like sentences ending with an exclamation point .  finally , he is spiteful and vindictive .  as a rejected father , he initiates a custody battle that seems hopeless .  as the town's only police officer , he issues a speeding ticket to a man whose father has just died .  we can see that this is a man that is both afflicted and living with pain .  he is a prisoner and a slave to it .  he is moving towards a level of madness and insanity that defies comprehension .  what kind of force can move a man to the edge of his emotions and beyond the reach of people who genuinely care for him ?  we learn that the answer is his father ( james coburn ) .  this is the kind of father that every son would be ashamed to have and that any woman would be afraid to meet .  he is an overbearingly misogynistic and frequent drunk who rules with an iron fist .  we see his tyrannical behavior through flashbacks .  to heighten the father's churlishness , the flashbacks are shown as home video footage taken by a very frightened person .  very effective .  today , wade's dad is quite elderly , but still manages to instill fear into a grown man .  the influence that the father possesses is inescapable , and its unsavory effect clamps down hard on the tortured wade .  the result is every son's nightmare ? becoming like the father that one has always dreaded to be .  this is a terrifically presented piece of psychological drama , and nolte turns in a strong performance as a man whose pain seems to become a detriment as well as a necessity .  he's a hulking person who is still reduced to whimpers when in the presence of his father .  coburn displays heft as the bitter dad .  but , it's most certainly not saturday-night-friendly fare .  there's nothing light or fluffy about this film .  that may turn many moviegoers away .  but it's certainly worth noting that this is a well-acted drama showcasing nolte's and coburn's raw acting talents . 
neg@ it was once said that in order to truly enjoy some of todays movies or novels , you must suspend disbelief .   however , there is a distinct separation between opening your mind to ridiculous situations and believing a bunch of flat lies .  it came as no surprise to me to learn that huntingburg , indiana ( where the film is set ) , does not have a mcdonald's , a sears store , a statue of a man on a horse , nor even a dam close by .  even if you can ignore these somewhat white lies ( even though the dam is crucial to hard rains plot ) ; there is still a bunch of things that just dont gel .  firstly , morgan freeman , possibly the greatest actor alive ( after such films as driving miss daisy , the shawshank redemption and se7en ) , was cast as a shifty goon intent on stealing enough money for a healthy retirement .  he _should_ have played the town sheriff , an experienced and somewhat intriguing policeman .  as a massive flood started by a dam accident overwhelms huntingburg , its residents presumably flee as the water level steadily increases .  i say presumably simply because we never know what happened to them ; and it seems a tad strange that an entire town ( with the exception of some folk who get introduced along the way ) can vanish before the flood has actually started .  but nether the less , armored guard couriers tom ( christian slater ) and his uncle are carrying three million dollars in the back of their van .  with a heavy rainstorm causing depressing conditions and slippery roads , it doesnt take long for the van to end up stuck amongst mud and water off the side of the road .  jim ( morgan freeman ) and a small gang of thieves locate the van and attempt to steal the three million dollars .  but of course tom is more than willing to save the day , so he takes the money and hides it elsewhere in town .  the local sheriff ( randy quaid , whom most will remember as the drunken pilot in id4 ) and a couple of police men investigate the situation , but their morals are soon overpowered by greediness as each character contemplates what he/she would do with their share of the three million dollars .  director mikael salomon has made sure that hard rain ends up turning everything topsy-turvy , and whilst the film may at first appear to be a definite goodies versus baddies ,  there are numerous twists in its plot that make this a slightly more enjoyable experience .  but by the time these interesting changes occur , its far too late in the film for them to have much affect .  hard rains continuos corniness and lack of originality washes out whatever hope the script may have had ; and although its cast is somewhat appealing most of its stars act well below par .  not at one stage capturing what could have been a fabulous on screen battle between slater and freeman , we are left to reminisce on films that dared to do something different and achieved more than what was expected .  such titles as broken arrow ( slater and john travolta ) and face/off ( nicholas cage and john travolta ) come to mind as films that have mastered silver screen confrontations .  strangely enough , they were both directed by john woo and both star john travolta .  we can forgive morgan freeman for giving a slightly disappointing performance since he is newish to the action genre , but christian slater could have achieved so much more had the amount of crummy one liners been reduced and some personality added to his character .  if you had asked me whether slater could perform well enough to substantially boost a movie prior to the release of broken arrow , my answer would have been a definite no .  i now know that he has no excuse , and _can_ do better ( if you dont believe me rent a copy of broken arrow from your local video store ) .  although hard rain never really works from the start , i somehow felt feelings of missed opportunity when the credits filled the screen .  the addition of an enticing sub-plot would have given the film time to breathe , rather than try to cram 96 minutes of action and disaster into a story that cant handle anything else .  despite the fact that hard rain fails on almost every account , if your standards are low enough you may find this to be a mildly enjoyable film .  no creative flair and no inventive scenes means that hard rain does not stand up well against its many competitors , but it doesnt really matter since the last thing you would want to do after shelling about $8 . 50 is compare this to other films . 
pos@ near the end of frank capra's holiday classic , its a wonderful life , george bailey ( jimmy stewart ) is feeling down .  he has devoted his life to others , and never fulfilled his dream of leaving his small supburb town , bedford falls .  standing upon a bridge above stormy waters , he looks down , contemplating suicide .  he has potential he hasn't fulfilled -- yet , he has done so much for others .  as a young chap , his ambition was to leave his hometown of bedford falls .  but times and ambitions change .  things happen , and he's stuck .  his guardian angel is there , and shows him that . . . it's  a wonderful life .  in a whirlwind tour of the town , george sees what life would be like without him .  he learns the moral lesson , that to live is a gift .  his earthly problems are solved .  the climatic scene is a marvel .  frank capra's film is a centenial classic -- watched and re-experienced by every generation .  wonderful life is one of the few pictures of times gone by that seems as fresh , maybe fresher , then it did when it was first released .  many films of the thirties through seventies have aged poorly .  but this one is a near flawless example of how well a perfect script and timing can mesh with first-rate acting , wit and suspense , glorious music , and terrific set peices .  the only even slightly dated scenes are those at the begining in which god has a long chat with clarence , george's guardian angel .  they aren't all that bad , but they remain corny and a little out of place .  nevertheless , this is one film that deserves its place in time , cinema history , and our hearts .  it can be equally appreciated by anyone of any age .  here is one genuine masterpeice , a classic that reaches heights and ambitions near perfection .  this crackling good mixture results in a film which is at once funny , exciting , moving and uplifting .  the film itself is almost a reversal of the life of george bailey -- there isn't too much to it , but capra and the gang ( various screenwriters , composers , actors ) plumet the material to its fullest potential .  the result is a film -- though not at first intended to be pigeon-holed as a holiday film -- that will always be remembered , celebrated , and loved . 
neg@ the haunting , a film so confusing that it forgets the true meaning of a horror film : to scare us .  if you've ever seen a movie , which you probably have considering you are on this website , you should know about all of the trivia they post before a movie .  they have things like illustrations and you have to guess the movie or facts about the film .  but , the one i always like are the &quot ; other name&quot ; joke that try and rename a particular film .  for instance , the one playing before the haunting had different titles for the film , small soldiers .  they had titles like little infantry and can i get those fatigues in a smaller size ?  well , after seeing the haunting , i had a few particular names for it as well .  unfortunately , i can only post one of them , otherwise , i'd be getting some pretty angry e-mails from overprotective mothers .  that title would be the confusing .  ok , that is a pretty bad title , but it fits this film perfectly .  it basically serves up no purpose , and combined with dry dialogue and a boring and confusing plot , it completes the formula for a cinematic bomb .  liam neeson once again gets wrapped up in a film without any depth , but at least the phantom menace was exciting and had some depth .  the haunting is nothing but trash , but unfortunately , will still make a boatload of money .  before i rant and rave about how bad this film is , let me point out the few , and i stress the word few , bright spots in this film .  first , the house is great- looking .  it looks beautiful , but this is also a dark spot .  it looks so great that it is hard to be frightened by it .  this is something that rears its ugly head at all points of the film .  things look so great , that you are looking on in awe instead of being scared straight .  haunted house films have to contain one element to even be slightly successful and that is being eerie .  the hill house is not eerie .  it is beautiful , but not the least bit frightening .  ever heard of lili taylor ?  before this film i did not , but i am glad that i do now .  she gives the only satisfactory performance in the film .  despite the dry dialogue and boring/confusing concept , she manages to light up the screen every time she appears , but unfortunately , her co-stars are usually following right behind .  owen wilson , who plays luke , is the only other cast member even close to giving an admirable performance , other then taylor .  he is basically there for the comic relief , and his character development is poor in all other areas .  all of the characters are desperately underdeveloped .  wilson had potential as luke , but it seems they just needed him to add a few laughs .  liam neeson and catherine zeta-jones suffer from the dialogue and plot and should not have been in this film .  their characters must suffer from wicked mood swings because in each scene they turn from ruthless to compassionate to scared to brave and whatnot .  they just are not believable and this is the final nail in the haunting's coffin .  the plot is terrible .  the opening scene of the film is very important , but the director makes it too obvious by getting close-ups of all the things that will play a major role in the end of the film .  as i sat through the film , i kept wondering what this film was trying to accomplish .  nell , lili taylor's character , goes from the hunted to the savior .  it makes no sense and the director gives the audience no reasoning for the ridiculous changes that take place in the film .  he forces the viewer to make various assumptions and does not give any in-depth information .  for instance , the beginning of the film gives us a sense of why nell is getting involved in the program .  but , we get zilch for the other four .  plus , two of them get wiped out in the first ten minutes .  and the worst part : most horror films have killings .  for some reason , they kill off luke at the end of the film .  no reason whatsoever , just off with his head , literally .  overall , the haunting is the epitome of a bad movie .  bad plot , confusing storyline and a waste of good talent .  hopefully , liam neeson can rebound and get into a good film and be used to his full potential .  hopefully , lili taylor will be recognized for doing such a great job in such a bad film .  and hopefully , other horror films , such as the blair witch project and the haunting of hill house , will not be as bad as this one . 
pos@ big courtroom thrillers have always captivated america .  o . j .  simpson , tom capano , the menendez brothers .  all these names are synonymous to americans and courtrooms .  and , of course , courtroom dramas are not a new topic to hollywood .  whether it be john grisham's thrilling novels or television's famous dramas , the courtroom has always provided big bucks .  so when i rented a civil action , i was expecting the film to be like the rainmaker , a brilliant law film that kept viewers on the edge of their seat .  however , what i saw in a civil action was far different from what i expected , a major surprise , but fortunately , a pleasant one .  john travolta always seems to come up big when you least expect it .  no one expected him to light up the screen in grease , nor in saturday night fever .  but , whenever he gets knocked down , he always seems to come back fighting .  a civil action is not john's best performance , but a strong one that could rival any performance in 1998 .  travolta proves that a normal and believable performance can vault a film into oscar nominations .  his performance is not flashy , nor memorable , just solid .  if he delivered the only solid performance , this film would still be average .  luckily , he has a strong supporting cast .  william h . macy is probably one of the most underrated actors in hollywood .  he continues to deliver great performances one after the other , but he is still regarded as a secondary actor .  in a civil action , he delivers yet another great performance as travolta's paranoid and greedy accountant .  he is not a lovable character , but a character who stands out in your mind whenever you think of the film .  he is not one of the big time lawyers , just a measly accountant .  but , he delivers one of the best supporting roles of 1998 , but there is actually someone better in a civil action .  robert duvall is also an underrated actor .  he gets many leading roles , but is never heard when you hear of big box office draws like tom hanks , brad pitt and jim carrey .  duvall has a supporting role in this as a lawyer of the co-defendant .  duvall is magical in this role .  he is the wise teacher , who not only battles it out in the courtroom , but also manages to teach every major player a lesson , in his own twisted way .  in many non-comedic films , directors are always trying to find a way to implement a touch of comedy , to keep the audience on their toes .  unfortunately , they usually just key in on one character whose main objective is to be funny ( jar-jar binks , anyone ? ) .  however , this usually backfires because the character is never fully developed .  this is not the case in a civil action .  they have comedy coming from all sides .  whether it be duvall's inane questions or macy's sharp anger , the laughs come in a steady pace .  granted , it's not roll in the aisle funny , but it provides a nice addition to the film .  the plot is terrific- somewhat .  the setup is nice with the film actually starting with a victory in the courtroom .  then the case that will make or break jan ( travolta ) 's career rears its ugly head .  they find out the goldmine involved with the case and wind up taking it .  however , budgets soon flounder and jan finds himself in deep debt .  i will not spoil the rest , although i must speak of the one downside to the film .  the courtroom debates are great , but the actual problem they are fighting for is never fully explored .  it left me somewhat confused , although the rest of the film is terrific .  all in all , john travolta is back yet again in this great film .  his supporting cast , consisting of macy and duvall , turn in tremendous performances , which ease the load on travolta .  the film is smart , witty and thought provoking .  not only does it gauge in-court battles , but also the various tolls it can take on the major players .  a civil action provides everything a drama lover craves . 
neg@ humanities quest for knowledge never ends .  so a team of scientists and film-makers travel to the amazon to search for a legendary indian tribe .  the party consists of anthropologist steven cale ( eric stoltz ) and the camera team consisting of terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) , danny rich ( ice cube ) , gary dixon ( owen wilson ) , denise kahlberg ( kari wuhrer ) and warren westridge ( jonathan hyde ) .  early on their journey they meet paul sarone ( jon voight ) whose boat is stuck on the shore .  they agree to give him a ride to the next village .  he claims to know the area well and can be useful locating the native tribe .  very soon their friendliness backfires on the group because sarone turns out to be a snake hunter without scruples who only wants to catch a giant anaconda and sell it to a zoo .  we don't have to wait too long for the giant snake .  she just had a panther hors d'oevre and now is looking for the main course .  our heroes paddle around in the amazonas as if it were the pool in their own backyard .  no wonder giant animals mistake their splashing for a dinner bell .  our anaconda is a polite one and swallows the first victim in one big gulp .  enjoy !  so much for the first attempt to catch her .  but who would want to catch a giant snake with a fishing pole ?  our villain sarone shows his soft side when he stops terri from shooting the snake .  too bad that anaconda is just about to strangle another member of the expedition .  one by one she goes after the others .  eric stoltz is stung by a giant wasp right in the beginning and is mercifully unconcious for the rest of the adventure .  the rest of the crew keeps entertaining the viewer although not the way the makers of the movie had planned .  however the scenes without the anaconda are rather boring .  whenever the leading lady shows up we're in for a laugh .  the snake reminds us of a favorite character of a famous animated movie even if she should be an awe-inspiring monster .  her attacks always follow the same plan : one last hypnotic look - she's looking at you , kid - then she speedily wraps herself around her victim and starts to gush it down .  mostly we don't see the act of devouring .  but she looks nice when she wiggles away with her bulging middle part .  whoever did the special effects on this movie may have wanted to go to a zoo first and study some real snakes .  maybe then the anaconda model would have looked more real .  the animatronics are somewhat more believable .  but that didn't work for the strangling scenes .  don't go see the movie for the f/x .  they are everything but up-to-date .  the viewer who likes to watch the end credits will see to his/her surprise that a snake expert was a consultant for the team .  we may doubt though that he has ever seen the final result of his work .  a well known american science magazine is also mentioned in the credits , but i will refrain from naming it here to avoid further damage to its reputation .  the majority of viewer will have left the theater as soon as the credits start rolling , anyway .  what kind of audience is the target group for this movie ?  hard to say .  this can't be a serious horror movie , or can it ?  see for yourself . 
pos@ the laserman : somehow the title of writer-director-producer peter wang's film conjures up images of superheroes , like ultraman and spiderman .  you kind of expect an adventure flick about a crime fighter who can shoot laser beams from his fingertips .  as it turns out , the laserman _is_ about crime and about laser beams , but there aren't any superheroes .  instead , wang's film is populated by a group of refreshingly off-beat characters living in the ultimate cultural melting pot : new york city .  the laserman is a comic brew which celebrates ethnicity , eccentricity , and electricity .  the film tells the bizarre story of arthur weiss ( marc hayashi ) , a chinese-american laser scientist whose life becomes incredibly hectic after he accidentally kills his lab assistant in an experiment .  he loses his job but finds work with a mysterious company which secretly plans to use laser technology to commit dastardly deeds .  arthur's professional life is cluttered with moral dilemmas .  his personal life , on the other hand , is cluttered with colorful friends and quirky relatives .  in fact , arthur is by far the blandest character in the film , despite a charismatic performance by hayashi ( the san francisco-based actor whose films include chan is missing and the karate kid ii ) .  it's the auxiliary characters who give the laserman its unique spark .  arthur's not-so-typical jewish mother , ruth , for example , is convinced that a chinese soul is trapped in her jewish body .  she has dyed her red hair black , she takes herbal medicine daily , and she is perpetually cooking up strange delicacies , such as matzo balls in soy sauce--the ultimate fusion of jewish and chinese cuisine .  veteran stage actress joan copeland takes the part and runs with it , almost stealing the movie in the process .  she plays ruth as a driven woman , determined to overcome her genetic heritage by immersing herself in chinese culture .  arthur's girlfriend janet ( maryann urbano ) is a kooky free-spirit who would rather meditate than copulate ; her ultimate goal is orgasm through zen meditation .  arthur's best friend , joey ( tony leung ) , is a small time thief who hustles everything from microwave ovens to machine guns .  joey is married to arthur's jewish sister , but he is also having an affair with a chinese immigrant who works in a whore house .  arthur's 11-year-old son , jimmy , played by the amazingly adorable david chan , is--horror of horrors--bad at math !  he finds it impossible to meet his father's lofty expectations .  the various people in arthur's life come together to form a rich tapestry of humanity .  like wang's earlier film , a great wall ( about a san francisco family visiting relatives in china ) , the laserman revolves around cultural differences .  every character in the film is , in some way or another , trying to find his identity--struggling to negotiate a balance between his native culture and the american way .  the movie also offers a provocative look at technology .  wang appears in the movie as lieutenant lu , a detective who is fed up with machines , even though he relies on them to do his job .  the film views technology with a wary eye , acknowledging its necessity while at the same time realizing its potential dangers .  wang raises the time-honored question of whether scientists should be held responsible for their inventions .  was einstein responsible for the a-bomb ?  is arthur weiss responsible for his lasers ?  the movie pits spirituality against technology , man against machine , and the result is a draw .  according to the film , technology has its place , but we must employ it with great forethought and caution .  ironically , by its very nature , the laserman is a triumph of technology--the technology of filmmaking .  wang's direction is exquisite , especially during the tense finale in which the director frantically cross-cuts between the various subplots , perhaps in homage to d . w .  griffith .  cinematographer ernest dickerson , who has worked on all of spike lee's films , gives the laserman a distinctive , artistic look .  mason daring's score , which includes a send-up of bach , is right on target .  the laserman is an ambitious endeavor , which is to be applauded , but it's sometimes ambitious to a fault .  wang serves up so many slices of life in the film that it's hard to digest them all .  for instance , one character ( arthur's sister ) has negligible screen time , and consequently we just don't care about her marital problems .  in weaving his web , wang has included a few too many strands .  overall , however , the laserman is a charmingly eclectic concoction .  on the surface , the film is a light and bouncy comedy-thriller , overflowing with whimsical humor and visual style .  the heavier issues emerge only when you take a deeper look at the film .  you can ponder the moral questions or you can just sit back and enjoy the absurdity of life in china town . 
neg@ one of the contributors to the destruction of the batman film franchise chris o'donnell stars in this remake of buster keaton's 1925 silent film seven chances .  now i've never seen seven chances , as i'm more of a chaplin fan than a keaton fan , but i seriously doubt that the classic version could be as insipid as this .  o'donnell plays jimmie shannon , the manager of a pool table manufacturing company .  he also fears commitment , and despite dating anne ( renee zellweger ) for over three years , he's unwilling to marry her .  his reasons ?  well he's a guy you see , and well , guys are like stallions , and they apparently don't like to be roped or something ( hey , that's the movie's explanation . . .  i'd marry renee zellweger in a second ) .  eventually it comes time for jimmie to propose , and when he does , it's the most absurd proposal ever uttered by a man ever .  he essentially says to her , " you win " and hands her a ring .  the audience should now hate this character .  i did .  then the meat of the plot presents itself .  jimmie's grandfather ( peter ustinov , completely wasted ) dies and leaves jimmie his entire estate of 100 million dollars as well as ownership of the pool table business .  however , in order to get the money and save the jobs of the factory workers , jimmie must be married before his next birthday ( which is just over 24 hours away ) .  having blown his chances with anne , jimmie proceeds to track down all his prior girlfriends and suggest a " business proposition " .  the movie wasn't half bad by this time , surprisingly .  it wasn't boring me , and even managed to read my thoughts at one point .  ustinov's character left a video will , and while he's reading the ridiculous clause in it , i thought to myself " what is this , brewster's millions ? " .  as soon as i thought it , hal holbrook's character actually says " what is this , brewster's millions ? "  it was quite surreal .  something happens though during the film's final act that caused me to sharply drop the rating it was going to receive .  up to that point , all of jimmie's prior girlfriends had turned down his " business proposition " which i felt was good .  at least the film wasn't painting women to be cold hearted gold diggers .  when jimmie has no other options , his goofy friend ( played by artie lange , making a career out of playing the goofy friend ) places an ad in the newspaper that somehow becomes a front page story .  at this point , 100 , 000 women don wedding gowns and head off to persuade jimmie to pick them to be his bride .  these women arrive at jimmie's location and immediately start bullying him about what he's looking for in a woman .  when he's had enough of their unjustified attacks , he tells the angry mob that there's been a mistake and he won't be marrying any of them .  as a result , the women proceed to chase him around the city , in hopes of catching him and tearing his limbs off .  this goes on for the rest of the film .  it's just chris o'donnell running from 100 , 000 obnoxious , greedy , angry and stupid women .  my groans of disgust could be heard for miles .  the film finally ended ( thankfully ) , but to this day i'm still groaning .  the bachelor is available on dvd from new line home video .  it contains the film in both full frame and in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , cast and crew info , and special dvd-rom features .  the original theatrical trailer is also on the disc , which contains scenes not in the film .  apparently there was even more footage of the gang of brides chasing o'donnell around the city , and at one point o'donnell is leaping from the tops of buses .  so that was bad enough to be cut , but the other 30 minutes of bride shenanigans was good ?  ugh . 
pos@ steve soderbergh's " sex , lies , and videotape , " which won the grand prize at the cannes film festival in 1989 , arguably began the resurgence of independent films .  made on a shoestring budget of $1 . 2 million , with then relatively unknown actors , it is a provocative , thoroughly original drama .  the film mostly focuses on the four central characters , all in their late 20's-early 30's .  ann ( andie macdowell ) , an unfulfilled housewife , is married to john ( peter gallagher ) , an insensitive lawyer , who , unbeknownst to her , is having an affair with her younger sister , cynthia ( laura san giacomo ) .  complicating matters even worse is graham ( james spader , who won best actor at cannes ) , john's old college buddy , who comes to stay at their house .  ann is absolutely won over by him , even though she clearly has stated that she has very little interest in sex .  that is the set-up for the last hour of the picture , and since the film is entitled , " sex , lies , and videotape , " it is best to keep the rest of the story developments at bay so that they will come as a genuine surprise .  director steven soderbergh has proven to be a wildly offbeat filmmaker , ranging from the independent , to the mainstream ( 1998's " out of sight " ) , to the downright kafkaesque ( 1997's " schizopolis " ) .  he is the type of director who obviously takes a lot of chances , and believes in the work that he does , and , " sex , lies , and videotape , " is probably his most confident , and maybe even best , to date .  the performances are superb from all four leads , but macdowell stands out in what is probably the main character .  she is always a very winning actress , but this is probably her most three-dimensional role that she has had ( with a close second being altman's 1993 mosaic , " short cuts " ) .  the other parts are perfectly cast as well , from spader's ominous graham , to gallagher's self-involved john , to giacomo's outspoken cynthia .  the final act of the film , especially , comes right out of left field , and turns out to be both shocking and oddly touching , and it would be criminal to give away the film's secrets .  suffice to say that , through one powerful sequence , ann is able to somewhat come out of her shell , and john learns a valuable lesson about honesty , as well as deception .  the film has one fault , however .  the characters are almost all emotionally cold and isolated from one another , and often unlikable .  if there had been a few extra scenes with gallagher , it probably would have helped , since his relationship with macdowell isn't quite as explored as i would have liked .   " sex , lies , and videotape , " although minorly flawed , is still easily a brave and adult motion picture that is far more mature and honest about its subject matter than the usual film .  soderbergh clearly knew what he was doing while he was making it , and the final product certainly proves this . 
neg@ when robert forster found himself famous again after appearing in " jackie brown " , he immediately signed up for a little film called " american perfekt " .  this was almost two years ago .  i waited patiently for the film to be released , but it never was .  finally , i forgot about it .  the other day , though , while i was perusing the selection of the local video store , i stumbled upon , you guessed it , " american perfekt " .  i immediately rented it and with a certain amount of glee , rushed home to view it .  having now seen the film , i understand why it never saw theatrical release .   " american perfekt " is a jumbled mess .  the storyline is non-existent .  it took me half the movie just to figure out what was going on .  and at that point , the only thing i really knew for sure was that the movie was * never * going to introduce a plot of some sort .  it wants to get by on quirkyness and so-called charm alone , and it just doesn't work .  robert forster plays a psychiatrist who picks up amanda plummer , and they head off on the road together .  along the way to no discernable destination , they run into all sorts of kooky and wacky characters .  i suppose this free-wheeling , no plot style is supposed to give the film an element of danger and excitment , but all it did was make me sleepy .  i'm all for trying new things within the realm of film , but not at the expense of coherence .  nothing in this movie makes sense .  the actions of the characters go unexplained , even when they're truly bizarre .  i'll give you an example , without giving too much away .  david thewlis has a part as a drifting con-man .  at one point , mid-way through the movie , he runs forster and plummer off the road with his car .  as he passes them , we see that his face is covered in blood .  do you think we would get an explanation as to what happened to him ?  you would think so , wouldn't you .   " american perfekt " is a waste of time .  nothing is gained from watching this movie , except maybe a migraine .  and if you do rent it , don't bother trying to figure out what's going on in the hopes that everything will be resolved by the end .  this doesn't happen .  and no explanation is given for the misspelling of " perfect " , either . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " osmosis jones " ( warner bros . )  if the farrelly brothers taught anatomy & physiology in school , no one would cut ever class .  this hip , live action/animation story begins as a monkey snatches a hard-boiled egg from frank , a zookeeper ( bill murray ) , who grabs it back , drops it , then gobbles up the contaminated morsel , explaining , " if it hits and ground and you pick it up within 10 seconds , you can eat it . "  like " fantastic voyage " ( 1966 ) , the pseudo-science animation then takes over when his body's immune system contacts traffic control as an ingested virus hits the digestive system : " be on the alert for illegal organisms ! "  eager to right " a stomach evacuation mistake " he once made , a cocky , clever , courageous white blood cell ( chris rock ) declares , " this is a crime scene ! "  and teams up with a conscientious " phi beta capsule " 12-hour cold remedy called drixenol ( david hyde pierce ) to chase down and destroy the deadly " red death " virus ( laurence fishburne ) that's determined to take frank down in 48 hours , beating ebola and e . coli to a medical record .  watch out for mucus mudslides , chaos in cerebellum hall and the detritus from booger dam ( runny nose ) , along with comic turns from molly shannon and chris elliot , plus the voices of william shatner and brandy norwood .  peter and bobby farrelly , along with writer mark hyman and animation directors piet kroon and tom sito , have turned their penchant for gross-out comedy , encompassing flatulence , festering sores and " popping a pimple without a permit , " into a funny , farrelly-funny family film .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " osmosis jones " is a wildly imaginative , original , explosive 7 .  and perhaps , as they're laughing , kids will learn where to find their uvula , along with nuggets about nutrition and hygiene . 
neg@ a big , busy boxing satire with a surprisingly paltry punch , the great white hype stars samuel l . jackson as a shameless boxing promoter whose plan to boost sagging pay-per-view revenues is to " invent " a white contender ( peter berg ) to challenge his black heavyweight " champ " ( damon wayans ) .   ( the logic is that people will pay more to see black vs . white than black vs . black . )  he may be right , in an absurdly accurate way , but the film doesn't give us a reason to care .  as a scathing sports spoof , hype is just that : unfunny , unfocused , and , at times , just plain pointless .  as a commentary on race relations , it's even * less * effective .  the dialogue is the best of this mess , lines like jon lovitz exclaiming " i cannot make caviar out of fish eggs ! "  writers tony hendra and ron shelton also do good on the street slang , though we never hear enough of it .  the script isn't strong enough , though , to support the aggressive camera work of director reginald hudlin ( house party ) .  he comes across as absolute overkill .  the great white hype * almost * turns around at the end , at the big match , when hudlin attempts an extended gag of rock-concert proportions .  with costumed dwarfs , gangsta rappers , and the " champ " dressed as death , only then do we get a glimpse of the spoof that should've been . 
pos@ in tim burton's `sleepy hollow' , there is a mysterious headless horseman who decapitates residents of the small town of the same name .  he rides a beautiful black steed and carries an imposing sword that cauterizes the wound of his victims with an immediate swipe .  burton's update on washington irving's classic tale of `the legend of sleepy hollow' offers us the mystery of the horseman , when the screenplay should have merely settled on the aspect of the horror .  writer andrew kevin walker ( `seven' ) throws in perhaps too healthy a dosage of sherlock holmes , but the visual treatment of the film is absolutely entrancing , as burton offers foggy locales and detailed costumes that are gorgeous and stirring to examine .  as `sleepy hollow' opens , we're greeted with a juicy cameo from martin landau , who won an oscar in burton's `ed wood' .  landau plays a prominent citizen of sleepy hollow , who , on a fateful carriage ride through the forest , is decapitated by an unseen horseback rider .  after two more murders haunt the residents of the quaint little town , constable ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is sent in to investigate .  landlord baltus von tassel ( michael gambon ) explains to crane that the heads have been severed from the carcass and mysteriously taken in each separate case , and that they believe the murderer is a dead hessian trooper ( played briefly by a wonderfully jarring christopher walken ) who has risen from the grave after being decapitated in the western woods .  crane is not a man of great superstition , and is determined to root out the human culprit with his assortment of gizmos and gadgets ( things i was not surprised to find in a tim burton movie ) .  first and foremost , `sleepy hollow' is a fun horror film .  as with virtually all burton movies , we are treated to a wonderful score by composer danny elfman , who has once again poured excitement and imagination into an atmospheric soundtrack that accentuates the gothic mood perfectly .  the horseman f/x are stylish and impressive , particularly in perfectly blended battle sequences involving actual actors .  but why did i enjoy `sleepy hollow' as much as i did ?  although enjoyable , it was not the numerous beheadings and the plentiful gore that spurted left and right . .  it was the light comic touch that burton applied .  the film has the sweetness of a candy apple , usually channeled through depp's wonderful performance as the lovable geek ichabod crane , who is no longer a mild-mannered school teacher but still attains his cowardly qualities .  this is certainly not the only alteration that's been made .  as the film progresses , it becomes apparent that walker is more concerned with the mystery of the murders than the murders themselves .  the momentum is slowed considerably once crane begins piecing the mystery together , because for the audience , it's not an issue we particularly wish to be solved .  it's more effective for the headless horseman to be an elusive demon than an elusive demon with an ulterior motive .  still , we are still captivated by the breathtaking technical detail and burton's keen eye to capture our attention .  the costuming is exceptional , and the dialogue is crisp and effective throughout ( it's recognizable that the script was refined by award-winning playwright tom stoppard ) .  the supporting cast exhibits more color and playfulness than many .  a blonde christina ricci is in fine form as von tassel's daughter katrina , and an unlikely romance between she and ichabod is surprisingly consistent .  walken , michael gough ( who appeared in burton's `batman' films ) and miranda richardson are all enjoyable in tackling their separate roles .  i suppose the strengths behind `sleepy hollow' lie within the central trio : director burton , constable depp and the headless horseman who hunts him down with ruthless accuracy .  all of this is not to be taken seriously , of course .  `sleepy hollow' is a lavish , frightening and altogether amusing reworking of a classic tale that many people cherished as children .  if you've got a decent head on your shoulders , you'll have the good sense to gallop off to the theater and enjoy it one last time . 
neg@ some movies ask you to leave your brain at the door , some movies ask you to believe in the impossible to really have a good time .  playing god asks just one simple , eensy , teensy thing so it can fully entertain you , it's accomplished in just four easy to follow steps : crack open your skull , scoop out your brain , squish it under your foot several times and reverse steps two and one .  congratulations , you now have all the necessary requirements to fully enjoy a whole lot of nothing .  some movies fail at the box office but you manage to see why the producers thought it could have been a good movie , others are simply good ideas that are badly executed .  then there's playing god , which enters the esteemed category of movies which seem to have grown from the union of a drunk director , actors satisfied in the knowledge that this horrible flick will have no lasting impact on their careers and a bunch of rip-offs ( or homages as they like to call it ) from other , better movies that end up looking like an unflushed toilet .  harsh ? maybe .  justified ?  hell yes !  this is a movie that is not just satisfied in ripping off other movies but feels the need to remind us of that fact every ten minutes .  for example , a gunman bursts into a garden with the two guns in his hands firing away .  this does look moderately kool , but the camera lingers on the actor for so long you can almost hear the director yelling : " oooh , look look !  john woo !  two guns blazing !  slooooow motion ! "  and if that wasn't enough , you can also hear the script grunting under the effort it must take to try and make every single line of dialogue sound like something deep and meaningful like in a tarantino movie .  poor timothy hutton gets to deliver most of the corny lines , you have to admire the effort he puts into it , this guy deserves better .  unlike most movies this one does not suffer from " stupid bad guy " syndrome , just to make things a little different this time we get stupid heroes .  example : duchovny manages to distract a bad guy by making him go into the bathroom to get some bandages .  now the bad guy is , like , stoned , man , so he leaves his shotgun next to our hero .   ( term used as loosely as possible )  survival instincts and a good dose of common sense seems to suggest grabbing the shotgun , which our hero does , but only after contemplating it for about thirty seconds .  even when he does grab it he seems unsure how to hold it , going so far as to actually wonder if he should place a finger near the trigger .  mind you , i've never fired a shotgun in my life but believe you me that the bad guy would be missing most of his vital organs , be he stoned or not .  some will argue that our hero does not have a killer instinct , the hell with that !  two fbi guys have just been shot in front me , along with one bad guy and the other looks like he might go ballistic at any second .  solution ?  boom !  i'll take the time to feel sorry about it later thank you very much .  another prime example of the idiot hero syndrome :  our boy duchovny needs to reach his girl before something bad happens to her .  he knows the head bad guy has her on the tenth floor of a building and that he might be running into a room full of people with itchy trigger fingers .  he still has his shotgun , bring it along you say ?  no thanks , i'll just ditch it in the back of my car .  and the real kicker is this : when he reaches the room and people start shooting at him he has the nerve to look surprised !  while we are on the subject of getting shot , why in hades were those fbi guys sitting with their backs to the door ?  i've got no formal training but even i know you never sit with your back to the door .  ask mr . wild bill , the first and only time he did not sit with his back to a wall cost him his life .  this is the major problem with this movie , any mook could have thought of a hundred ways to make it better .  is it so much to ask that hollywood actually put a little common sense into their characters ?  for instance :  our heroes hide at duchovny's summer home , now the bad guys could come knocking at any moment .  ok , this time our hero does get himself a gun and has it at his side most of the time .  but see , our hero is a drug addict and guess what ?  he chooses now to go clean and suffer through dt .  oh sure , he'll be really impressive when the bad guys come calling .  going clean is really honorable of him , but i would have waited until i did not need to be conscious or being able to fire a gun .  for an enjoyable performance by timothy hutton , plot holes the size of godzilla , getting our intelligence insulted and several " oh come on ! "  moments . 
pos@ garry shandling makes his long overdue starring film debut as an alien from a planet populated only by genetically created men , who are looking to take over the earth by propagating their own species there .  shandling is chosen for the mission , is given the name harold anderson , and is set up as a banker in seattle .  after a few disastrous " mating " attempts , he figures his best bet will be susan ( annette bening ) , a former alcoholic who eventually tells harold that she won't have sex again until she gets married .  the leader of harold's planet ( ben kingsley ) tells him to marry her , and harold is soon exposed to all the " joys " of married life .  despite its title and premise which seem to imply that this is some jerry lewis vehicle from the late 1960s , what planet are you from ?  is a very funny movie .  the plot ( which the film wisely doesn't linger on the specifics of for too long ) is of course nothing more than framework for the jokes , most of which work very well .  the material may be considered crude and tasteless by many , and i might have thought so as well had shandling not been the lead .  but he brings a sort of pathetic charm to the role , and it's his performance that makes the film truly funny instead of just offensive .  plus if you think about it , what planet are you from ?  could have very easily gone the gross-out route ( considering that shandling's character is given a detachable penis that vibrates and hums when he gets excited ) .  we never see anything though , it's all implied , which gives the film a touch of class amidst its crudeness .  i'm glad to see that someone in hollywood still understands the concept of " less is more " .  the talented supporting cast certainly adds to one's enjoyment of this film .  annette bening ( oddly playing a merged version of her real estate salesman character from american beauty and her ditzy spiritualist character from mars attacks ! )  does a fine job keeping up with shandling and makes a good catalyst for his brand of humor .  she even manages to pull off a potentially disastrous scene where she has to perform a rather goofy rendition of " high hopes " for a lengthy period of time .  ben kingsley , john goodman and greg kinnear all fare well in their performances as well , and linda fiorentino . . .  good lord , there should be some sort of law stating that no woman can be that sexy .  everything about her character in this film oozes raw sexuality .  what planet are you from ?  is available on dvd from columbia tristar home video .  the disc gives you the choice of either watching the film full frame or in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 ( and enhanced for 16x9 televisions .  also included on the disc as extras : a decent making-of featurette , an isolated score track , talent files for the cast and crew , and the film's original theatrical trailer ( as well as trailers for wolf , men in black , bugsy and as good as it gets ) .  when i first saw that the disc featured an isolated score track , i actually laughed .  how great could the music for a silly little comedy be for it to get it's own isolated track ?  well as it turns out , it's a mighty fine score from carter burwell ( fargo , the hudsucker proxy ) that i enjoyed listening to again while i typed up this review .  kudos to columbia tristar for adding that feature to the disc .  what planet are your from ?  was unjustly ignored in theaters , and i hope it finds its deserved audience on home video .  this fine dvd is certainly a great way to see it .  [r] 
neg@ late in down to you , the lead female character ( julia stiles ) states her greatest fear is having an " artificial conversation " with her boyfriend ( freddie prinze jr . ) .  the irony of this statement will not be lost on audience members who have not yet walked out , fallen asleep , or otherwise given up on this pathetic attempt at romantic comedy .  the film is a multi-million dollar testament to everything artificial .  filled with characters , motivation , plot and dialogue that ring fake and shallow at every step this is an unquestionable disaster .  prinze plays a college student intent on playing the field until he falls for stiles' freshman co-ed .  at first the movie seems to be an attempt to string along scenes with the sole purpose of out-doing the previous in how " cute " it can be .  the happy couple " psychoanalyze " each other ; they pick out a song because , as prinze's dj mother ( lucie arnez ) explains , every couple needs a song ; he smells her shampoo ; she scratches his chest in the morning to let him know she wants to make love .  then , in standard romantic comedy style , things fall apart .  why ?  well , because they have to .  otherwise the couple can't make up and live ( presumably ) happily ever after .  down to you exists outside the realm of normal logic .  scenes do not connect to each other and it often seems to be attempting some sort of surrealism , but this is handled so poorly that everything comes off random and stupid instead .  a picnic scene involving the six key characters is just bizarre , not only for the stretched logic of these people hanging out together , or even knowing each other , but mostly because an unusual amount of screen time is dedicated to a goat .  the supporting characters are remarkably flat , and insultingly ridiculous as well .  stiles' best friend ( rosario dawson ) is a pot head , prinze's roommate ( shawn hatosy ) is a girl crazy fool who can't meet women , and then there are the porn stars ( zak orth and selma blair ) .  he is one of those famous porn stars who is frequently interviewed on television , does the college lecture circuit , and stars in high budget costume epic porns that are shot on film .  you know , the average porn star .  the costume epic idea gives him a reason to appear in a different ridiculous outfit everytime he's on screen , the porn angle exists just so there can be a couple of stupid sex jokes .  she is a porn star mostly so we know she's slutty , so her very existence will make stiles jealous and prinze tempted .  attempts at drama ( which means julia is going to cry ) include a pregnancy scare and the big break up .  these characters are so insipid only the most forgiving viewer would be manipulated by these weak scenes .  what happened here ?  the cast is full of likable , promising , young actors ( stiles especially seems to be going places ) .  writer/director kris isacsson has simply given them material so weak not even seasoned pros could pull it off .  in fact the whole film feels like a reworking of last year's extremely unpleasant the story of us , for teen audiences .  the direction is film-school-grad obvious .  it's stylish in a hugely self conscious way which throws in split screen , a pointless parody of " cops , " characters walking into the flashbacks of other characters , and a hilariously cheesy airport meeting between prinze and stiles where all the extras move in fast motion while the couple moves in extreme slow motion .  plus , the whole story is told flashback style , narrated by prinze and stiles directly addressing the camera .  this is the second film in a row ( following wing commander ) starring freddie prinze jr . which should have premiered on the aisles of the local blockbuster but was likely saved from that fate due to the fluke success of she's all that .  if he doesn't start making better choices fast his future films won't be so lucky . 
pos@ i was born in 1970 , which makes me barely old enough to remember bell buttons , 8 tracks and disco .  however , since i was 17 years old i've seen more than my share of adult films .  i mention this only because i thinks its important to state up front that i'm not against pornogrpahy .  i've seen enough of these films to know the range of content and quality available .  director paul thomas anderson's boogie nights offers us a view into the world of porn during the period considered to be the golden age of adult cinema , the mid to late 70s .  this was the period when x-rated movies were real movies , shot on film , shown in movie theaters and even reviewed by legitimate critics .  this was an age when porn directors actually aspired to make innovative often educational films , films that attempted to tell a real story .  one of the more fascinating aspects of this film is how , like in an any other billion dollar industry , the creative visionaries tend to be ignorant to the trends that will soon make them obsolete .  in this case , the arrival of the now ubiquitous videocassette .  burt reynold's manages to resuscitate his career portraying such an auteur , known as jack horner .  horner's has a steady " family " of performers , some of whom live in his plush l . a . home .  but in the world of porn , performers are a commodity - the fresher , the better .  when horner scouts a fresh faced stud bussing tables at his favorite discotheque , he decides to add him to his stable .  it is a pairing that leads to a meteoric rise and fall for a young man reaching his prime and an old man rapidly speeding past his .  as directed by anderson , the camera moves through many of the scenes with an eerie omnipresence and an almost childlike curiosity to peer beyond the closed door .  boogie nights provides a voyeuristic peep into the underbelly of l . a . 's hardcore film scene .  but the peep show doesnut let us walk away when the titillation ends .  the downside of voyeurism is sometimes we end up seeing things we wish we hadnut .  by the film's final image , what we we once found titillating has now become a grim reminder of the vanity of fame and the high price of realizing your dreams .  boogie nights is not about sex .  it does not glorify porn or the lifestyles of the performers .  in fact , the film isn't really about pornography at all .  pornography is merely the setting to tell a compelling story about a lost and forgotten group of people who form their own sub-culture to find acceptance of who they are .  the film goes to brilliant , often hilarious and sometimes harrowing lengths to show us that the people who choose to produce or perform in these films are generally not all that bright and lack the basic tools to function in the mainstream world .  yet , like in the lauded tarantino films , these people still have their own moral code , their own concepts of integrity and their own needs to experess themselves creatively .  the characters we meet are like a road map of dysfuntion .  first stop , the den mother ( julianne moore ) in denial about her addiction to cocaine as she tries to retain custody of her son .  second stop , the cuckold crewman ( william h . macy ) who keeps discovering his wife having sex with anyone and everyone ( the wife is played in hilarious cameos by real-life porn star nina hartley ) .  but the driving force behind the plot is 17 year old eddie adams .  eddie is blessed with a natural endowment so famous that people actually pay just to see it .  with no real ambition of his own , he hooks up with jack horner to fullfill his destiny of fame .  his alcoholic mother , clearly dissatisfied with her own lot , abuses him verbally and drives him out of the house .  horner introduces him to amber waves ( moore ) who immediately adopts him , a nuclear family is born .  the surrogate relationship that develops between amber waves and her " babies " provides some of the films most poignant scenes .  clearly , she is not even fit to manage her own life , let alone nurture these lost children .  but the need to love and be loved is so strong , they easily ignore the dangers of the less subtle addiction she introduces them to .  even the viewer is somehow lulled into feeling like the love she offers is similar to being in a real family .  then again , perhaps its not so different from real families at all .  eddie adams , who later takes on the screen name " dirk diggler " , is skillfully acted by former pop-star , mark wahlberg .  i say " former " pop star because with this performance wahlberg can officially quit his day job .  this is bold and brave territory for such a young man .  he pulls it off marvelously .  wahlberg is a " big , bright star " with a big bright future .  boogie nights plays very much in the spirit of the people versus larry flynt , without the first amendment preachiness .  its intimate studies of character make it the superior film .  wahlberg's surprising performance is on par with woody harrelson's .  but in my opinion , boogie nights , is not the best film of the year .  i got the feeling that itus 2 1/2 hour running time could have been cut by 15 or 20 minutes without losing any of its resonance .  still , if the subject matter of this film intimidates you , thereus no doubt that once you start watching boogie nights you may still feel like its not your thing , but youull find yourself grooving to it anyway . . . ya  know , kinda like disco . 
neg@ how do films like mouse hunt get into theatres ?  isn't there a law or something ?  this diabolical load of claptrap from steven speilberg's dreamworks studio is hollywood family fare at its deadly worst .  mouse hunt takes the bare threads of a plot and tries to prop it up with overacting and flat-out stupid slapstick that makes comedies like jingle all the way look decent by comparison .  writer adam rifkin and director gore verbinski are the names chiefly responsible for this swill .  the plot , for what its worth , concerns two brothers ( nathan lane and an appalling lee evens ) who inherit a poorly run string factory and a seemingly worthless house from their eccentric father .  deciding to check out the long-abandoned house , they soon learn that it's worth a fortune and set about selling it in auction to the highest bidder .  but battling them at every turn is a very smart mouse , happy with his run-down little abode and wanting it to stay that way .  the story alternates between unfunny scenes of the brothers bickering over what to do with their inheritance and endless action sequences as the two take on their increasingly determined furry foe .  whatever promise the film starts with soon deteriorates into boring dialogue , terrible overacting , and increasingly uninspired slapstick that becomes all sound and fury , signifying nothing .  the script becomes so unspeakably bad that the best line poor lee evens can utter after another run in with the rodent is : " i hate that mouse " .  oh cringe !  this is home alone all over again , and ten times worse .  one touching scene early on is worth mentioning .  we follow the mouse through a maze of walls and pipes until he arrives at his makeshift abode somewhere in a wall .  he jumps into a tiny bed , pulls up a makeshift sheet and snuggles up to sleep , seemingly happy and just wanting to be left alone .  it's a magical little moment in an otherwise soulless film .  a message to speilberg : if you want dreamworks to be associated with some kind of artistic credibility , then either give all concerned in mouse hunt a swift kick up the arse or hire yourself some decent writers and directors .  this kind of rubbish will just not do at all . 
pos@ casting " doogie howser " star neil patrick harris as mind-reading military intelligence is only one of the guilty pleasures of " starship troopers , " a hugely entertaining , mega-budgeted sci-fi yarn directed by paul verhoeven , who's making quite a recovery from his 1995 g-string epic " showgirls . "  sure , " starship troopers " qualifies as cinematic junk food , but that's forgivable when the junk food is this tasty .  everyone needs a high-calorie change-of-pace from fall's onslaught of costume dramas and other assorted oscar bait , and " troopers " does the job admirably despite its flaws .  for its first hour , " starship troopers " plays like a cheeky futuristic hybrid of " saved by the bell " and " g . i .  jane . "  in the distant years ahead , high school grad johnny rico ( casper van dien ) signs up for federal service along with his girlfriend carmen ( denise richards ) ; he gets accepted into the mobile infantry but she wants to travel to the fleet academy to become a starship pilot , so the couple is broken up .  but there's temptation awaiting both of them -- johnny's is in the form of an old friend ( dina meyer ) also in the infantry and still harboring a secret crush , while carmen attracts the eye of her flirtatious instructor ( patrick muldoon ) .  personal rivalry and sexual jealousy carry over into the final 65 minutes , when an impending alien menace begins making good on its threatening presence and obliterates part of south america , killing johnny's parents and destroying his home .  our weakening , lovesick protagonist is given new reasons to stick around the mobile infantry , and is dispatched with a group of fellow fighters to the aliens' home planet , where he will head up a ground assault to end the threat for good .  but the enemy is far smarter , more diabolical and numerous than the good guys give them credit for , and after an initial walloping , they must re-examine their strategy .  the exposition -- played like a futuristic soap opera -- is silly , but aware of its own ridiculousness enough to merit more smiles than groans .  once we get past the campy character introductions and the numerous ( but never boring ) training sessions , " starship troopers " really kicks into high gear .  its last half is all gruesomely violent action -- a fury of severed limbs , decapitations , disembowelments , brain removal , explosions and other jolt-inducers that are really going to please the 13- and 14-year-old boys lucky enough to dodge getting carded or caught on their way into this deservedly r-rated show .  the creature design and special effects are amazing as expected , and their interaction with the human actors are a realistic , imaginative high point .  it's nice to see intergalactic beasties that aren't too derivative of the titular menace from " alien . "  these monsters are appropriately terrifying sights , especially the arachnids , a spider-scorpion-crab combo that's all sharp talons and even sharper legs .  they attack in packs of hundreds , and it's a funny , scary sight to see these bugs take repeated hits and still crawl , jerk and struggle towards their intended victims in a determined , gooey mess .  it matters not that they actually have a laughable master plan in mind ( ask yourself if a species like this seems capable of carrying out such a plot ) ; these sequences of insect warfare are numerous , bloody and immensely satisfying .  the occasional dramatic moments -- one cast member's death , the final resolution to johnny's love triangle -- are botched , a testament to how " starship troopers " fails to create any strong , outstanding characters .  these bland ken-and-barbie archetypes serve the story adequately enough to keep any distractions at arm's length , but restrain the film from achieving a higher ground a la " star wars , " where even the slightest aliens had definite personality .  the acting is decent ( but never spectacular ) ; most of the performers hail from aaron spelling territory -- smallish roles on " beverly hills 90210 " and/or " melrose place " -- and it occasionally shows .  van dien , for example , is limited but perfectly likeable .  in smaller parts are the afore-mentioned neil patrick harris as johnny's best friend and jake busey ( gary's son ) as johnny's sidekick ; the latter excels at playing creeps ( see " the frighteners " or " contact " ) but seems off-kilter as a second banana .   " starship troopers " is based on the novel by robert heinlein , a sci-fi writer who hasn't exactly seen any recent adaptation justice done to any of his books what with 1994's howler " the puppet masters . "  but the overall familiarity to the " alien " trilogy -- and the promise of great gobs of gore -- could act as a crowd-drawer .  its own possible influence , however , might well work against it when the franchise continuation " alien : resurrection " opens in a few weeks .  we will know then which film to crown as the best summer movie of the fall . 
neg@ carry on at your convenience is all about the goings-on in the factory of a toilet manufacturer , wc boggs ( kenneth williams ) .  once they have won an order to manufacture 1000 bidets in two months and charles coote ( charles hawtrey ) has designed a suitable model , the factory employees set to work but are interrupted by union representative vic spanner ( kenneth cope ) and friend bernie hulke ( bernard bresslaw ) who call them out on strikes on the slightest pretext .  meanwhile , chief foreman sid plummer ( sid james ) is growing tired of his wife beattie ( hattie jacques ) and her budgie .  he would much rather live next door with fellow boggs worker chloe moore ( joan sims ) but once he discovers that the budgie can predict the winners of horse races , he is over the moon and flush with money .  his daughter , myrtle plummer ( jacki piper ) , is going out with wc's son lewis boggs ( richard o'callaghan ) and this causes conflict on the staff day out to the seaside when vic spanner vies for her attentions .  in the end , if the strike does not cease , boggs will have to close down his factory , but the support of a group of women led by coote's wife-to-be and spanner's mother , agatha spanner ( renee houston ) , try to resolve the situation .  also , sid realises that his budgie has caused him nothing but trouble since it started predicting horse race winners .  there are some good performances , as usual , from sid james and kenneth williams in their standard roles .  charles hawtrey is third billing but only appears in a few scenes .  his part is mildly amusing .  richard o'callaghan is appealing as bogg's stuck-up son , patsy rowlands is funny as miss withering , bogg's assistant , and renee houston is terrific in her small part as agatha .  however , sole acting honours go to hattie jacques as beattie plummer .  although her character is not directly involved with the main storyline , she manages to input a great deal of pathos and feeling into her character .  a marvellous performance from a marvellous actress .  the film suffers from annoying performances by bernard bresslaw and especially kenneth cope .  in his carry on debut , cope overdoes his role as spanner making him so annoying as to be unfunny .  joan sims returns as the love interest ( instead of barbara windsor ) .  sims' 'usual' part as the downtrodden wife was taken by hattie jacques .  additionally , bill maynard as fred moore is very poor .  this carry on movie tries it best to entertain the viewer : - the locations and wealth of characters are appealing .  however , the toilet humour becomes tiresome very quickly and some of the performances leave a lot to be desired .  this movie does not know where it is going .  it was made in 1971 and talbot rothwell the scriptwriter seems to be in two minds whether to go for 'bluer' jokes or to maintain the 'innocent' jokes success of most of its predecessors .  that is why this film suffers .  a minor carry on film whose major asset is the performance by hattie jacques .  the new 'minor-regulars' such as o'callaghan and piper are not able to enliven the movie and the toilet humour becomes humourless after a while . 
pos@ i had a chance to see a sneak preview of city slickers ii on campus last night .  i went in with the expectation of a film with the similar flavor which made the original such a success : personal growth and insightful humor about life .  i came away somewhat disappointed in this regard , getting some of the latter and not much of the former .  the basic plot revolves around billy crystal , who plays mitch robbins , turning forty .  he's now become the station manager of the radio station in which he worked in the original .  he's given a job at the radio station to his best friend , played by daniel stern , out of sympathy while stern's character works through his divorce .  his loser younger brother ( john lovitz ) comes to mitch's house to bum a money and place to live , all while mitch and his wife try to celebrate his birthday .  during the celebration , mitch discovers what appears to be a treasure map in curly's ( the cattle drive leader in the original played by jack palance ) old hat .  after a business trip to las vegas , crystal , stern , and lovitz stay a few extra days to go off in search of the treasure .  on the way , they run into curly's twin brother , duke , played by ( you know who ) jack palance .  first of all , the cinematography was beautifully done , especially the outdoor scenes in the desert .  the scenes are such that i would like to see some of those sights filmed myself .  there is some character development during the film .  the actors remain true to their characters and play them well , without overplaying the jokes .  the movie is a good basic adventure , with enough plot twists to provide for an ending that is difficult to predict .  the movie is paced well , but with a couple slow spots in the middle and towards the end .  humor-wise , the film has a good number of jokes which maintained my interest throughout the film .  there are memorable moments like when stern is bitten by a snake , but there are fewer jokes to laugh at in the sequel ( surprise , surprise for a sequel , right ? ) .  however , the slight bitter aftertaste i have with this film has to do mainly with the film's manipulation of the audience .  the film tries to pull your heart-strings too much regarding how close the characters are to each other , like when mitch had decided to suck the snake marrow out of his best friend's butt .  this is done again when the gang meets up with some members of the cattle drive group from the original .  there were also some parts which appeared unrealistic , like whether the stampede would start in the way it did or why they didn't worry more about water while tromping around the desert .  some strenuous stretches of the imagination are required here .  since the objective of the gang is to find gold and get rich ( unlike finding themselves in middle age like in the original ) , i also found it harder to empathize with the characters during their journey .  overall , i'd say that the film is an entertaining and humorous adventure with some story-line deficiencies making it less worthy than the original .  it may be worth the full price of admission , but a matinee would be a better bargain . 
neg@ you should have heard the old guys in the crowded bathroom following the " odd couple ii " sneak preview .  they were as happy a group of men as i've ever encountered .   " what a great movie , " exclaimed one gent at the urinal , " everything was so true ! "   " yeah , " laughed a man standing next to him , " i drive as slow as that one guy did .  my kids give me holy hell for it ! "   " and peeing is a big part of my day , just like with felix , " chuckled another fellow , as he fastened his trousers up around his nipples and prepared to rejoin his wife .  if you're over 60 and in the habit of driving at least 20 miles per hour below the posted speed limit , " neil simon's the odd couple ii " may be just the film for you .  others will likely be less charitable .  while " the odd couple ii " is amiable enough , neil simon's shockingly lazy screenplay feels like a slapped-together tv reunion show , suffering from wheezing situation comedy set-ups and jokes straight out of the borscht-belt .  simon , once the toast of broadway , has apparently shifted his sights from the great white way to the neighborhood multiplex in branson , missouri .  the contrived story , involving the marriage of their kids , provides the excuse for a reunion between oscar madison and felix unger , who haven't seen each other in 17 years .  the former roommates fly into california from their respective homes for the wedding and , quite literally , run into one another at the airport .  they take off in a rental car for the ceremony in san molina , get lost and have a series of " wacky " adventures on the road .  jack lemmon and walter matthau reprise their roles as felix the neat freak and oscar the slob .  while there is an undeniable chemistry between the pair , the impact of their reunion is lessened by the fact that they've headlined three films together since 1993 : " grumpy old men , " " grumpier old men " and " out to sea . "  still , the two veteran actors are fun to watch .  matthau , whose magnificently rumpled face looks like a big pile of laundry with eyes , has a field day as oscar , the crown prince of the curmudgeons .  lemmon , looking pastier than usual , is fine as the ever- annoying felix , who still punctuates his chronic whining with occasional allergic honks of " phnah !  phnah ! "  despite their bickering , the characters have real affection for each other , providing a welcome respite from the non-stop barrage of insults that marked their previous three films together .  unfortunately , matthau and lemmon's charm isn't enough to compensate for simon's hack script , which wouldn't pass muster even on a upn sitcom .  one contrived situation follows another , lathered with enough stale one- liners to supply a dozen would-be comics on open-mike night at the local comedy club .  if someone drags you to this film and you find yourself as bored as i was , try entertaining yourself by counting the product placements .  burger king gets one , as does the el pollo loco taco joint , but budget rent-a- car really hits the jackpot .  between script references to their business and shots of signs and stickers bearing their company name , i couldn't keep count of all the plugs .  i did , however , keep track of some of the swearing .  i came up with four " god-damns , " three " shitheads " and two " fucks . "  the inclusion of those particular profanities seemed odd for a film aimed at an older audience , but the theater full of seniors appeared to have no problem with them , howling like crazy every time the boys let rip with a naughty word .  it's sad that a writer of neil simon's stature has grown desperate enough to resort to swearing for cheap laughs , but not surprising when you look at what else gets passed off as humor in this tepid exercise .  one running gag involves oscar and felix's inability to remember the name of the town where the wedding is to be held .  at one point , the men actually spend 30 seconds just free-associating , riffing off variants of the word " san . "  the sequence is so creatively bankrupt that it is simply embarrassing .  one of the oldest maxims of film-going is " beware of movies that use the author's name in the title . "   " neil simon's the odd couple ii " is no exception to the rule .  while the production has enough minor pleasures to warrant a tv viewing on some lazy sunday afternoon , it has no business playing in a movie theater .  of course , there's a bathroom full of old guys who would strongly disagree with every word i've written , and would probably whip my " young-whippersnapper " ass to boot .  one thing's for sure , though .  they'll never catch me in a car chase . 
pos@ an indian runner was more than a courier .  he * became * the message he was carrying .  what danger is a bear , to a message ?  i used to think sean penn was an immature , arrogant , photographer- punching , madonna-marrying , loudmouth .  but all that has changed now .  the guy has grown up .  and that's not all .  it seems that sean penn has talents both as a writer and a director , if this film is any indication .  one might imagine a movie with plenty of ruthless rage and showy machismo , given penn in charge of bronson and and hopper .  but , no .  this film is about a real struggle , and the victories and defeats are not simple .  penn lets the story unfold at a pace dictated by the lives of the characters , without unnecessary rush or flash .  the focus of the story is two brothers .  david morse is the brother who has grown up in the small midwestern town in which they were raised , tending a failing farm and finally becoming a police officer .  viggo mortensen is the wild brother , whose wild behavior seems to be a reaction to some ancient pain that he can't name , much less resolve .  the film picks the story up on the day when mortensen returns from vietnam , and morse coincidentally encounters an armed youth fleeing for the state line .  it becomes clear that some kind of conflict threatens the link that the brothers once shared .  the film is unobtrusive , simple , direct , plain , and sincere .  it isn't exactly perfect , but its sincerity is well invested in the struggle of the two brothers to identify the sickness before it destroys them .  life seems to move forward a little faster than they can get a handle on their problems .  this is a good film without big budget sets , or big name stars pushed into your face .  in fact , i'm reviewing it because i suspect that it may not get much marketing .  there were perhaps 10 others at the showing i saw .  i thought the structure was clean and not oversimplified , though there are a few free-form sections which also work very well .  the obligatory 1960s music seemed a little cliche , but what are you going to do--this movie * does * take place in the 1960s after all .  in my opinion , it is worth full-price admission . 
neg@ sylvester stallone has made some crap films in his lifetime , but this has got to be one of the worst .  a totally dull story that thinks it can use various explosions to make it interesting , " the specialist " is about as exciting as an episode of " dragnet , " and about as well acted .  even some attempts at film noir mood are destroyed by a sappy script , stupid and unlikable characters , and just plain nothingness .  who knew a big explosion could be so boring and anti-climactic ?  unless you saw " blown away " . . .   " the specliast " of the title is none other than action star sylvester stallone ( in comeback #19 , i think ) , who plays a quiet , hermit-like bomber who was once a bomb expert with the army or something , but who suffered a change of heart when he and his assistant ( james woods , who shows us exactly what over-the-top is , other than another bad sly film ) accidentally killed some innocent people during a job .  his credo is killing bad people , not innocents .  and that's why he makes big bombs .  so anyway , into his life steps the seductive sharon stone , who is basically the girlfriend/moll of the stupid son ( eric roberts ) of a cuban/miami kingpin ( rod steiger , in an indecipherable accent , which is sometimes cuban , sometimes brando , sometimes scottish , etc ) .  turns out sharon is actually using her boyfriend so she can kill him , since he killed her parents when she was young .  so she calls sly , leaves messages with him , sends him e-mail , etc , about planting a bomb to kill roberts , which sly listens to obsessively , and while he works out naked .  yea .  also into his life , though again , comes woods , who has been tipped off by stone to catch sly .  using the cops , he tries to set up traps , none which really work , so when sly calls him , he goes ballisitic on his ass over the phone , getting so worked up by saying his must-be-improvised speeches that he seems to pop the vein in his head wide open .  these are the most exciting scenes in the film , and woods becomes the only ounce of entertainment in the film .  the film tries to offer us a moody film noir , except with explosions , but comes up completely snake-eyes .  it's just a pretend film noir , making it a big waste of time .  and for action buffs , the action scenes are pretty lame , with some really unrealistic-looking special effects ( a penthouse being blown off of a hotel looks like a piece of cardboard falling into a tub ) .  then there's the much-discussed sex scene between sly and stone , which are about as mispaired a couple as rachel and ross on " friends . "  their sex scene is more nauseating then sexy , because it shows us more of sly than stone .  now let's guess who we'd rather see naked , okay ?  stone's small but perky breasts , which we've seen more times than harvey keitel's dick , or stallone's veiny ass , which isn't usually shown for a very good reason ?  i know i can't really judge it as a flaw of the film , but come on .  the worst flaw of the film is this : it's boring .  i mean , i was on caffeine when watching it , but my friend fell asleep only to be woken up by james woods ranting .  but a good movie does not james woods going nuts make .  if you're in for some fun action , rent sly's earlier " demolition man , " which sucks too , but in a much more entertaining fashion .  skip this dull film , unless you want to see woods , or make fun of steiger's accent , or see stone's breasts again . 
pos@ plot : good ol' texan kid suddenly gets to play first-string quarterback on his high school team's football team , in a town where football is considered religion .  the coach is just about the biggest a-hole you'd ever want to meet , who will do practically anything to win .  the good ol' texan boy does not approve of said man's methods .  critique : a fun football movie .  this film was obviously geared towards the teen market , with mtv behind its production , a big tv star actor in the lead role , rockin' hip music galore , and plenty of t&a .  having said that , i enjoyed the look and feel of the movie , thought james van der beek gave a solid performance , loved the slick sounds , and yup , loved that t&a !  i actually thought this was a comedy going in , but overall , it plays more towards the dramatic , than a comedy .  i also enjoyed jon voight's performance as the stubborn dick coach , as well as many of the other character players on the team .  this is not a classic film by any stretch of the imagination , but it might teach some kids the hard lessons behind the " fun " game of football , or just allow them to have a good time for about an hour and forty-five minutes in the movie theatre ( or in the comfort of their own home , depending on where you watch this stuff . )  all in all , i would definitely watch this movie if you like football , play football or want your kid to succeed in high school football .  you could also watch it if you like teen flicks with a lot of cute guys and girls running around doing their stuff .  and did i mention the t&a ?   : )  little known facts about this film and its stars : james van der beek actually started acting after a concussion stopped him from playing football in real life .  he is the oldest of three children , and his father is a cellular phone salesman while his mom runs a gymnastics studio .  he's born in connecticut and received $200 , 000 for his role in this film .  actor scott caan , who plays football player " tweeder " in this film , is the son of famed actor james caan in real life .  that's right , he's sonny's son !  actress amy smart , who plays van der beek's girlfriend in this movie , also played the main star's girl in the 1999 film outside providence ( 6 . 5/10 ) .  screenwriter w . peter iliff also had a part in writing the screenplays for the 1992 harrison ford film , patriot games , and the keanu reeves surfing flick , point break .  director brian robbins might be best remembered as the " cool dude " from the tv series " head of the class " .  his name was eric mandrian and he generally wore a long , black trench coat on the show .  the book mox ( james van der beek ) is reading on the sidelines in this movie , hidden inside the team's playbook , is " slaughterhouse-five " by kurt vonnegut , jr . the high school fight song played at the pep rally is the texas a&m war hymn . 
neg@ after 1993's " falling down , " i hoped that joel schumacher would mature into a great director .  since then he has offered us two so-so adaptations of john grisham novels ( " the client " and " a time to kill " ) and two batman movies that lowered the standards of that franchise .  although these disappointments dampened my enthusiasm for schumacher's potential , the publicity for his latest release , " 8mm , " raised new hope .  it promised to be something unusual .  it wasn't .  the plot goes like this : tom welles ( nicolas cage ) is a private eye who is hired by a wealthy woman , allegorically named mrs . christian ( myra carter ) , to investigate an 8mm movie found among her late husband's belongings .  the movie appears to be a snuff film in which a teenage girl is raped and murdered by a man in a leather mask ( who reminds me of bane in schumacher's " batman & robin " ) .  because murders can be realistically simulated in movies , mrs . christian wants tom to discover if the girl is alive or dead .  by combing through missing persons reports , tom finds the girl's name and tracks her to los angeles .  with the aid of max california ( joaquin phoenix ) , a video store clerk ( and another symbolic name ) , tom wanders through the underworld of pornography in search of snuff .  the plot bears an obvious resemblance to paul schrader's " hardcore , " in which a father goes deeper and deeper into the industries of porn and sex to find his missing daughter .  both films are modeled on dante's " the inferno , " of course ; " 8mm " makes that connection overly obvious by casting max as virgil and having him constantly tell tom that they were heading toward a meeting with the devil .   " hardcore " is a much more subtle and meaningful film .   " 8mm " had a lot of promise .  in its better moments it's an examination of violence as entertainment and of the beast within even a nice guy like tom .  one moment of the first sort : when we first meet max he's reading truman capote's " in cold blood " underneath the cover of a porn novel .   " in cold blood " was the father of the true-crime genre , which is the literary equivalent of snuff films .  max promises that we will see examples of the second theme when he tells tom , " dance with the devil and the devil don't change ; the devil changes you . "  tom does change-i'll let you discover the specifics for yourself-but not permanently .  schumacher and screenwriter andrew kevin walker didn't have the guts to take tom so far down the dark tunnel that he couldn't come back .   ( walker's " seven " did a much better job on that theme by refusing to compromise ) .  cage tries hard to pull it off , but the script doesn't give him enough to work with .  phoenix walks away with the movie-he's smart , charming , and funny .  other cast members include " fargo " 's peter stormare camping it up as porn auteur dino velvet and " the sopranos " 's james gandolfini as a soulless porn merchant who pushes tom too far .  in the last analysis , since " 8mm " falls short of its pretensions and its promise , its just another private eye story in the raymond chandler/ross macdonald tradition of having the detective uncover the depravity behind the glossy facade of wealth and privilege .  however , unlike other predictable fare in the genre-last year's " twilight , " for example- " 8mm " is especially disappointing because it could have been much more than it is . 
pos@ the question isn't why has grease been reissued .  the answer to that one is easy : to celebrate the movie's 20th anniversary and to make more bucks for paramount's coffers because john travolta is once again a hot commodity .  no , the question that ought to be asked is : should grease be reissued ?  the answer is not an easy one .  grease is a fun movie , an entertaining fantasy of the '50s , embodying all the cliches of that era .  the music is lively and the dance numbers , choreographed by patricia birch , are energetic and high-spirited .  travolta was at his pinnacle as a sexual icon , cool , but non-threatening .  but grease didn't break any new cinematic ground .  it was not a milestone in movie history such as citizen kane or easy rider .  what grease is - or has become - is the highest-grossing musical in film history .  ok , let's not be a spoilsport .  grease is a fun and entertaining movie , even though it stretches credulity to see such performers as travolta , olivia newton-john , taxi's jeff conaway and the multi-talented stockard channing try to act like high schoolers .  it's nostalgic to recall how good a dancer travolta was , and it's sad to think of what could have been had not a few missteps sidetracked his career .  he could have become a musical comedy star in the tradition of gene kelly .  cinematically , the musical comedy has basically gone the way of the dinosaur .  between grease and 1996's evita . , you can probably count the number of movie musicals on one hand .  two reasons have contributed to the demise of the genre : the first is that movie audiences have become more sophisticated , no , make that cynical and jaded .  today , if a character began to dance and sing with no orchestra in sight , he or she would probably be hooted off the screen .  today's audiences lack the innocence , that belief in movie magic that is required for a musical to succeed .  secondly , a lack of talent .  performers with the charisma , the style , the larger-than-life panache of fred astaire , gene kelly , ginger rogers and judy garland are gone .  most singers and dancers remain on the stage , and those who do succeed in movies usually wind up in serious dramatic parts .  a good example is gregory hines , one of the greatest dancers in the world .  he danced a bit in the cotton club , tap and white nights , but those were essentially dramatic vehicles .  so , perhaps the reissue of grease can serve a purpose .  if audiences show enough interest , meaning if the re-release earns the studio enough revenue , it may spark a revival in movie musicals .  perhaps not original musicals such as singin' in the rain , an american in paris or seven brides for seven brothers , but for broadway properties that have been in the planning stages for film adaptations for several years .  at one time or another , according to the industry rumor mill , hollywood has been set to create an animated version of andrew lloyd webber's cats , a filming of the popular phantom of the opera as well as les miserables and chicago , the latter reportedly to star madonna .  so , let this grease be the forerunner of an armada of movie musicals .  let grease be the word that sparks this revival . 
neg@ that's exactly how long the movie felt to me .  there weren't even nine laughs in nine months .  it's a terrible mess of a movie starring a terrible mess of a man , mr . hugh grant , a huge dork .  it's not the whole oral-sex/prostitution thing ( referring to grant , not me ) that bugs me , it's the fact that grant is annoying .  not just adam sandler-annoying , we're talking jim carrey-annoying .  since when do eye flutters and nervous smiles pass for acting ?  but , on the other hand , since when do really bad slapstick ( a fistfight in the delivery room culminating in grant's head in joan cusack's lap--a scene he paid $60 to have included in the movie ) and obscene double entendres ( robin williams , the obstetrician , tells grant's pregnant girlfriend she has " a big pussy , " referring of course to the size of the cat hairs on her coat , but nonetheless , grant paid $60 to have the exchange included in the movie ) pass for comedy ?  nine months is a predictable cookie-cutter movie with no originality in humor or plot .  hugh grant plays a successful child psychiatrist .  why a child psychologist ?  so the scriptwriters could inject the following unfunny exchange :  kid : my dad's an asshole .  grant ( flutters eyelashes , offers a nervous smile , then responds in his annoying english accent and i-think-i-actually-have- talent attitude ) : could you possibly elaborate on that ?  kid : my dad's a _huge_ asshole .  more like a hugh asshole , but that's beside the point , which is : nine months includes too many needlessly stupid jokes that get laughs from the ten year olds in the audience while everyone else shakes his or her head in disbelief .  so , anyway , grant finds out his girlfriend is pregnant and does his usual reaction ( fluttered eyelashes , nervous smiles ) .  this paves the way for every possible pregnancy/child birth gag in the book , especially since grant's equally annoying friend's wife is also pregnant .  the annoying friend is played by tom arnold , who provides most of the cacophonous slapstick , none of which is funny , such as a scene where arnold beats up a costumed " arnie the dinosaur " ( you draw your own parallels on that one ) in a toy store .  the only interesting character in the movie is played by jeff goldblum , who should have hid himself away somewhere after the dreadful hideaway , as an artist with a fear of ( and simultaneous longing for ) commitment .  not even robin williams , who plays a russian doctor who has recently decided to switch from veterinary medicine to obstetrics , has much humor .  his is a one-joke character-- the old foreign-guy-who-mispronounces-english stereotype ( did someone say yakov smirnov ?  that's my favorite vodka , by the way ) , hence the line " now it's time to take a look at your volvo , " another nasty but unamusing joke , except this one goes right over the ten year olds' heads , while the adults simultaneously groan .  nine months is a complete failure , low on laughs and intelligence and high on loud , unfunny slapstick , failed jokes and other uninspired lunacy .  hugh grant's sunset boulevard arrest ( please , no caught-with-his-pants-down jokes ) may bring more people into the theaters , but they certainly won't leave with a smile on their faces , not after 90 minutes of grant's nervous smiles .  everything in the movie is so forced , so unauthentic that anyone with an i . q .  over 80 ( sorry , hugh ) will know they wasted their money on an unfulfilled desire .  but at least they didn't spend 60 bucks for it . 
pos@ martin scorsese's films used to intimidate me .  because of his reputation , i felt obligated to appreciate them as deep film art rather than as great flicks .  as much as i enjoyed them , i usually felt like i missed something .  i learned from scorsese's casino that whatever techniques he uses are merely there to enhance the story .  no mystical interpretation is required to appreciate his movies .  for example , in casino he uses subtitles when robert deniro and joe pesci are using code words with each other .  there was no meaning more exotic than that subtitles were the most succinct way for him to tell the audience what was really going on .  or toward the end , when he uses three quick dissolves to compress a scene of a car backing away from a building .  again , the simple , mundane explanation is that it helped the pacing .  i don't mean to say that his techniques are not creative or good-looking .  but he simply uses the best tool for the job .  it shouldn't have surprised me , then , that kundun , a film about a mystical religion , actually turned out to be quite straightforward .  the movie follows the life of the 14th dalai lama , the spiritual and political leader of tibet .  the movie's title is another name for the dalai lama which means " ocean of wisdom . "  his story is told in strict chronological order and there are only a few cinematic visions to embellish the literal story .   ( one of which makes an interesting statement : pay attention to the film's opening shot and watch where it is repeated . )  we first glimpse the dalai lama when he is two years old .  his curiosity and self-assuredness capture the attention of a monk wandering in search of the new lama .  a test is arranged to see if this boy really is the reincarnation of the 13 dalai lamas who have gone before .  several items belonging to the previous dalai lama are laid before the boy alongside some other items .  the child is asked if he recognizes any of the items as his own .  the boy picks correctly , proving that he is the new , and the old , dalai lama .  scorsese and long-time editor thelma schoonmaker were kind enough to allow the possibility that the child was taking his cues from the monk .  before selecting an item , he would look at the monk , perhaps for some sort of confirmation .  sometimes he picked right the first time , and sometimes he made a second choice .  either way , whether through reincarnation or quick human perception , the tibetans were assured of choosing a boy who could be a wise , perceptive leader .  >from this point on , the boy is raised as the reincarnation of the lama's spirit and the future leader of a nation .  it is a great weight to put on the mind of a child .  in the u . s . it might be grounds for a call to social services .  but the young lama accepts his destiny without any apparent emotional damage .  neither the great power nor the awesome responsibility keeps him from becoming a genuinely likeable , well-rounded person .  certain patterns take shape over the years .  for example , the dalai lama is fascinated by technology .  radios , clocks , and telescopes are some of his favorite toys .  when he is old enough to accept his leadership , he makes plans to modernize isolated tibet .  he also has a soft spot for creatures who are suffering or in pain , including herd animals .  it's nearly a running gag that he will buy sheep to keep them from being herded to slaughter .  but the most ominous constant throughout his life is the presence and threat of tibet's gigantic neighbor , china .  tibet and its leaders prove correct in fearing china , as , first the propaganda , then the political pressure , and finally the armies , come across their common border .  the chinese invasion is so successful that the lama's life is in danger if he stays .  the movie ends when , after much agonizing , the dalai lama leaves tibet for india .  the story doesn't lead up to a cinematic climax as strongly as most feature films do .  it just doesn't fit that mold .  if it were forced into such a shape it would have been a completely different movie ( perhaps more like seven years in tibet , which is good in its own right ) .  the pacing of kundun is more calm and level than that .  the structure of the film is made to fit the characters and events , not vice-versa .  perhaps because the pace is slower , we have more time to notice the beautiful art , vestments , and architecture of tibet .  a mandala , ( tibetan sand painting ) with beautiful , vibrant colors is shown throughout the movie .  the robes and hats of state are bright red and gold .  the bricks are a rich reddish brown , not unlike the skin tone of the tibetans .  even the touchstone pictures logo before the movie ( which is usually light blue ) is the red and gold of tibet .  philip glass composed the music for kundun , and he was the perfect choice .  for those who don't know of glass , his music is like a tibetan mandala .  his building blocks are lots of small notes , tiny grains of music , which are first grouped , then repeated in patterns .  these patterns create interesting textures which are themselves part of a larger composition .  people won't be flocking to kundun for it's great ending , or talking about its outstanding plot , but it does have a lot to offer : an interesting lifetime , exotic sights , rich cinematography , and innovative music .  it gives interesting insight into tibetan buddhism and takes a warm look at the dalai lama as a person .  on top of it all is the cinematic mastery of martin scorsese , who gives the film a strong , beautiful , consistent look . 
neg@ adam sandler turns up the charm in his latest romantic comedy , the wedding singer .  unfortunately , that also has the effect of softening his edge .  he's nowhere near his peak of happy gilmore , not that it was much of one .  he's certainly not helped here by a rather frail plot .  the year is 1985 , letting the whole film obsess with 80s nostalgia .  adam sandler is nice guy robbie , the titular wedding singer , who entertains at the local reception hall by belting out his interpretations of classic 80s hits .  robbie's life is thrown into turmoil when his fiancee , linda ( angela featherstone ) , leaves him at the altar .  however , things are looking up when he meets julia ( drew barrymore ) , a waitress at the hall .  she's the perfect woman , but for one small flaw : she's engaged to be married to a slick junk bond king , glenn ( matthew glave ) .  so , most of the film deals with the slow realization by robbie that he and julia are in love , and his attempts to stop the wedding .  as far as plots go , it's a pretty thin and tired one .  to fill the gaps , the wedding singer delivers heaping spoonfuls of 1980s nostalgia .  from boy george to michael jackson , from miami vice to dallas , from the first cds to the last rubik's cubes , this film revels in all the minutiae .  and then there's the music . . .  learning a lesson from the successful soundtracks to grosse pointe blank , and romy and michele's high school reunion , this film packs more 80s songs in the film than the running time will allow .  as a result , most songs get maybe a lyric or a half , but you can almost see the bright gleam in the record executives' eyes : the wedding singer vols .  2 , 3 , and 4 !  while the nonstop 80s riffs get incredibly tiring , at least they distract you from the plot .  at least last year's my best friend's wedding stirred up the standard " keep your true love from marrying someone else " plot by making the rival a nice person .  here , glenn is such a lowly rat of a man that you never see what julia saw in him .  barrymore , on the other hand , is simply charming as julia .  which leaves us with adam sandler .  he's at his best in the film when his nice guy persona fades a little ( such as when he has a breakdown on stage during a wedding reception ) .  when he's in full nice-guy mode , he's more pathetic than endearing .  the film boasts several cameos ( most notably by steve buscemi and jon lovitz ) .  but none of them work well at all .  buscemi's role as a drunken best man simply fails to be humorous .  lovitz , on the other hand , as a rival wedding singer , makes you long for his good old days on saturday night live , where he was actually funny .  the only cameo which has some appeal is a guest appearance by a classic 80s rocker during the film's finale ( surprisingly , one of the only plot-related scenes which actually works . )  adam sandler still has some work to do before he can become a dependable leading man .  while he attempts to change his image in the wedding singer , the end result is no net gain . 
pos@ if this keeps up , jane austen ( sense and sensibility , pride and prejudice ) may have to apply for posthumous membership to the screen writers guild .  yet another novel of hers has made the transition to the silver screen .  mansfield park is a turn of the century ( 18th century going on 19th ) story about love among the classes as well as an examination into proper society and family ties .  ten year old fanny price ( hannah taylor-gordon , jakob the liar ) , taken from her mother and father and the poverty in which they dwell , is sent to live with her aunt and the privileged class at mansfield park , under the stern patriarchal hand of her uncle , sir thomas bertram ( harold pinter , mojo )  spending her days reminded of her lower status , she also invents and writes fanciful stories during her private times .  fanny eventually grows to become a beautiful , intelligent , and engaging heroine ( quite unlike the original character which ms . austen originally penned in her novel . )  writer/director patricia rozema ( when night is falling ) is responsible for the textual changes .  from a purely dramatic perspective , the revision makes perfect sense and improves the film's audience appeal .  what ms . rozema has done is to infuse the main character with much of ms . austen's own personality by including excerpts from the author's journals , giving that dialogue to fanny .  the result is a central character that is immediately appealing .  as the grown fanny , australian actress frances o'connor ( all about adam ) does wonderfully textured work .  at times , ms . rozema has fanny address the camera directly to communicate many of the novel's more introspective observations .  this is a difficult device to work seamlessly into a period film and it is to ms . o'connor's credit that it works as well as it does .  the central theme which gives the story its legs in an old one . . .  whether it is better to marry for love or for social standing ?  fanny has fallen in love with her cousin edmund ( jonny lee miller , plunkett & macleane ) who appears fond of her as well .  his attentions are soon divided as the stylish and socially acceptable mary crawford ( embeth davidtz , bicentennial man ) enters the picture along with her equally acceptable brother henry ( alessandro nivola , inventing the abbotts ) who eventually sets his romantic sights upon fanny .  while mary and henry are evidently less than sincere in their affections , their presence does provide the movie and the main characters with the necessary conflict that keeps our interest until the film's appropriately austen-like ending .  other thematic devices include a awkwardly inserted reference to the source of the wealth of mansfield park . . .  the slave trade .  there is also a hint of both lesbianism and incest but neither is carried very far and is soon forgotten .  the motivation for marriage remains the primary thematic thrust .  fanny's cousin , maria bertram ( victoria hamilton , persuasion ) is an example of one making a poor match , marrying a well-to-do fool who is able to make her comfortable , but never happy .  fanny's own mother , trapped in her chosen life of squalor warns fanny by admitting that her situation is due to the fact that she " married for love . "  fanny , given those two terrible examples , and faced with the same choice is understandably indecisive as to which way to lean .  the spiritual answer , of course , lies in the middle of those two extremes .  marriage is not a cold , calculating decision based upon self-preservation .  neither is it a senseless decision made in the warm afterglow of a passionate embrace .  in the purest sense , marriage forms an insoluble union whereby two people agree to function as one .   " and said , for this cause shall a man leave father and mother , and shall cleave to his wife : and they twain shall be one flesh ? "  matthew 19 : 5 [kjv]  love and logic can be combined .  god's word contains both .  so does a marriage based upon his truth . 
neg@ the most depressing thing about the depressingly pedestrian james bond film " the world is not enough " is its final frame : white letters on a black background proclaiming " james bond will return . "  oh i certainly hope not .  with pierce brosnan in his third and reportedly last go-round as james bond 007 , " the world is not enough " is the best example to date that " 'enough " is enough .  in this , the 19th chapter in the seemingly-endless franchise featuring ian fleming's debonair british secret agent who likes his martinis--and his nemeses--shaken not stirred , the sub-inspired screenwriters have chosen to rehash all of the setups , stunts , and sexy encounters of the previous 18 bond flicks rather than coming up with anything the slightest bit original .  we've got previously-used speedboat chases , ski chases , and sticky situations aboard nuclear submarines .  we've got a couple of hot-to-trot babes without an ounce of acting ability between them .  we've got a post-cold war megalomaniac bent on world domination slash destruction ( here played by a skinheaded robert carlyle with mean , lean panache ) .  and , as has been the case since 1977's " the spy who loved me , " we've got a plot that has nothing whatsoever to do with anything conceived by mr . fleming .  we've also got a main title song by garbage to which , with very little effort , you can fit the lyrics to * both * songs from " tomorrow never dies . "  while originality was never the series' strong suit , the films were almost always fun , with at least some thought going into the nonstop stunts .  i can't think of one memorable set-piece in the entire--and very dull-- " the world is not enough . "  in addition , michael apted ( yes , the respected director of such films as " coal miner's daughter , " " nell , " and the " 28up " documentary series ) takes embarrassing advantage of the full range of bond clich ? s .  you get the " talking killer " plot device--you know the scenario : the bad guy has the good guy at his mercy yet waxes poetic just long enough to die of old age .  and you get a slew of high-priced assassins who can't hit a barn door at 20 paces : in the film's opening minutes ( of an endless 128 ) , bond chases a sultry sniper along the thames and the leather-clad lovely fails to hit bond's souped-up " fishing boat " with a bazooka when he pulls within a few feet of her .  later , she takes off in a hot air balloon with bond dangling from a guy rope beneath her but is still unable to take him out .  these reliable absurdities are more frustrating than usual since there are no distractions other than occasional ads for luxury automobiles , vodka , or credit cards .  in and among the rampant product placements , brosnan grapples with carlyle , " braveheart " 's sophie marceau ( as former kidnap victim slash heiress elektra king ; she's terrible ) , " wild things " ' denise richards ( as a nuclear physicist lord help me ; she's laughable ) , and judi dench as m . dame judi brings the only shred of dignity to a series that has long since jettisoned its self-respect ( about the time roger moore inherited bond's walther ppk ) .  brosnan goes through the motions with the grace and charm you'd expect of the former " remington steele " star , but even he has to be thinking there's more to life than an easy paycheck .  he's given plenty of wiseacre asides to deliver , but only one of them-- " i don't know any doctor jokes " --made me chuckle ( although " i thought christmas only comes once a year " is more in keeping with the series' penchant for grown-worthy puns ) . 
pos@ in december of 1996 , a little movie called " scream , " was released , became a box-office smash , and resurrected films targeted at teens .  first , it was teen slasher movies that were the big fad ( both " scream " movies , " i know what you did last summer , " " urban legend , " etc . ) , but just recently , the popularity has switched over to the teen comedy genre ( a 'la '80s john hughes ) , starting with last june's " can't hardly wait . "  it may be the first week of april in 1999 , but so far this year we have been given a movie aimed at the 25-and-under market almost every single week : " varsity blues , " " jawbreaker , " " cruel intentions , " " simply irresistible , " " the rage : carrie 2 , " and " the mod squad . "  coming april 9 are two more of this type : " never been kissed " and " go , " and on april 23 , we've got the teen satire " election " and the teen horror-comedy " idle hands . "  jeesh !  out of all of these moves , however , the one that is most similar to the latest incarnation , " 10 things i hate about you , " is this past january's mediocre , ho-hum " she's all that . "  although similar in plotting ( ok , darn near identical ) , " 10 things i hate about you , " a modern-day version of shakespeare's " the taming of the shrew " ( " she's all that " got its inspiration from " pygmalion " ) , is an infinitely superior film in every department , from the smart direction by first-time feature director gil junger to the charming and well-written screenplay by karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith to the striking ensemble cast , who give the best group of performances in a teen comedy since 1985's " the breakfast club . "  and to top it all off , in the inevitable climax set at the prom , at least we didn't have to once again suffer through a goofy , inappropriate dance sequence ( who could forget , or want to remember , for that matter , this ludicrous development in " she's all that ? " ) .  the day wide-eyed , shy new student cameron james ( joseph gordon-levitt ) starts school at seattle-based padua high , he is swept away at the sight of the beautiful and popular sophomore , bianca stratford ( larisa oleynik ) .  although he doesn't know french , he purposefully learns some of it just so he can tutor her , but finds that her paranoid gynecologist father ( larry miller ) won't allow her to date until her bitter , unconventional older sister , kat ( julia stiles ) , a senior , decides to .  kat , of course , has sworn off the likes of boys , but cameron sets out to find someone that will be the perfect match for her , which is exactly what he finds in the form of the rebellious patrick verona ( heath ledger ) .  complicating matters , cameron's dorky friend , michael ( david krumholtz ) , decides to use a wealthy jock , joey ( andrew keegan ) , who also has his sights set on bianca , as a pawn so that he will pay patrick to get kat to go out with him , and then cameron hopes to steal bianca away from joey .  as you can see , " 10 things i hate about you " includes a huge number of characters , some of which i haven't even mentioned , such as kat's shakespeare-obsessed friend , mandella ( susan may pratt ) and bianca's materialistic comrade , chastity ( gabrielle union ) .  at a short , but well-used running time of 98 minutes , all of the characters are perfectly handled , satisfyingly developed , and , for the most part , are not treated as caricatures ( another flaw of " she's all that , " where the bad guys ( and gals ) ran around constantly saying , " you're vapor " ) .  since i could sympathize with the realistic depictions of the central characters , and since many of the comedic and dramatic scenes were surprisingly effective , i got completely caught up in all of the relationships and was thoroughly entertained .  aside from a good screenplay , it's the performances that can make or break a movie , and director junger has really hit the jackpot .  aside from joseph gordon-levitt ( " 3rd rock from the sun " ) , who gives his strongest performance to date here , none of the actors are that well-known , but it is this aspect that brings a particular freshness to the proceedings .  as the main character of kat , julia stiles ( last seen in the miniseries " the '60s " ) is marvelous and always believable , and certainly has a bright future ahead of her .  even though it is her role that is initially the most difficult and hard-edged , it was easy to identify with kat's way of thinking ( she is against the silly tradition of the prom and loves reading sylvia plath ) , and i completely admired her individuality .  no one , i think , could have portrayed her as perfectly as stiles does .  heath ledger , as the infamous bad-boy of the town , injects much life into patrick , and has a lot of chemistry with stiles .  one other actor of note is larisa oleynik who , with the help of screenwriters lutz and smith , is able to turn bianca into a person with multi-dimensions , even though she is accurately self-centered at the on-set .  in one truthful scene , cameron angrily asks her if she has always been so selfish , and bianca grudgingly realizes that yes , she has .  one off-beat element of the film , and a source of some hearty laughs , is the way that the school's staff act , which is strikingly unformal .  allison janney , as the guidance counselor ms . perky , who is writing a trashy harlequin romance novel , is comic dynamite , as is daryl " chill " mitchell as the english teacher , who reads shakespeare to the class in rap and , at one point , sends kat to the office because , for once , she actually thinks one of his assignments is really good .  although there are a few cheap laughs that are thrown into the film near the beginning , most of it actually works , especially in the humorous and witty dialogue exchanges and quirks between the characters .  in one very funny scene , chastity asks , " i know people can be overwhelmed , and they can be underwhelmed , but can people just be . . . whelmed ? "  at another point , bianca and kat's father ( a stand-out larry miller ) , who is constantly terrified that his daughters are going to get pregnant , only allows bianca to go to the prom on one occasion : before she leaves , she has to put on the heavy fat suit he has so she will get an idea of what it's like to be pregnant .   " 10 things i hate about you " once and for all proves that there is still life in the teen comedy genre , and this movie is probably more reminiscent of the great john hughes than any other film of the '90s .  it also helps that the movie has a perfectly-assembled soundtrack , mixing indie-rock with new wave '80s songs ( and with , thank goodness , no rap ) .  by the film's end , it actually had me rooting for certain characters to get together , and i was also quite pleased with how everything was wrapped up , especially in the final scenes involving kat and bianca , kat and her father , and a flawlessly-acted and moving sequence in which kat gets up to read the poem she has written for her english class ( this is where the title comes from ) .  luckily , i doubt i would be able to find ten things i hate about " 10 things i hate about you , " but the positive aspects of the film far out-number ten . 
neg@ i was recently told that in china their had been strong protests against the release of red corner  and this is apparently because of the way it shows the injustice of many chinese laws .  but if you ask me , the real truth of the matter is that the chinese critics association were determined not to punish the population into viewing richard gere running across rooftops in search for a fellow american .  or more the point , anyone that allows him to bask in his own less-than-subtle presence .  this is not an insult to gere , as i consider him to be a rather talented actor  but more the choice of character and responsibility of his role .  if a film is solely about one person , the main actor must give a faultless performance in order for it to really work .  although geres performance is in no way poorly acted , it is far from perfect  and i look forward to seeing him star with other talented actors that can reduce the need for him to carry a film by himself .  this is where he truly belongs , and if you are reluctant to believe me than look no further that primal fear ( with the sensational edward norton ) , the jackal ( with bruce willis ) and pretty woman ( with the delightful julia roberts ) .  in red corner gere plays classy lawyer jack moore , who is guilty of the same personality traits as his character martin vail in primal fear  bold and up front , who thinks he is three steps ahead of everybody else but is actually two steps behind .  it is with invulnerability of both mental and physical kind that the character of moore is portrayed , which left me barracking for the chinese to haul his sorry ass into jail .  it doesnt take long from the films beginning for jack moores charm to work on a pretty chinese lady , and in no time they are in bed together in a hotel room  drunk and cheerful .  yet instead of a hangover , poor jack finds himself covered in blood and the chinese chick dead on a couch .  he is arrested and hauled into a chinese prison .  his cell , food and rights  all terrible .  now trapped in a foreign land without adequate aid from the american embassy , lawyer shen yuelin ( bai ling ) defends his case by initially pleading guilty to the charge of murder .  jack and shen argue about their countries different laws ; shen stating that they will shoot you in the back and charge the cost of the bullet to your family .   as the plot thickens , scenes get progressively more ridiculous  ranging from richard gere running over rooftops in search of the us embassy to a scooby doo ending where the least expected but-you-knew-along criminal is discovered .  red corner is one of those films where you sneer , laugh or vomit youre way through all of its minutes .  what should have been a politically taunt thriller is little more than a pointless expedition to see how stressed out richard gere can act .  this is not to say that the film does not have its moments  there are some tense court room scenes that are shrewdly created  telling the tale of foreign injustice and government corruption .  but what they amount to spoils the effect of having them in the first place  perhaps this is why red corner is so frustrating to watch .  if you look at the films overall concept fairly broadly , the basic idea is quite tangible .  it is upon the films execution where the diminutive plot twists and developments fail to impress or innovate - the evidence that goes missing , the high powered officials shielding the truth and intolerable love angles have all been done so many times before .  if that wasnt bad enough , red corners dialogue is purely laughable on many occasions .  shen yuelin attempts to gain sympathy by reciting renaissance of a destitute relationship with her deceased father , whilst jack moore is eager to talk about chinese musical instruments when he could have been working on a plan to free himself .  taking itself far too seriously , red corner is not half the film it intends to be .  although it would have benefited from the help of a more valuable supporting cast , the films main fault is in the bizarre ( and often out of place ) way of unfolding a story which isnt that meritorious anyway .  whilst richard gere still proves that has what it takes to be known as a decent actor , i would think twice before going to see him attempt to manage such a serious yet hollow drama again .  martin vailwhere are you ? 
pos@ imagine this scenario : you and any of your family members are scudding through one of those long , excruciating cross-country car trips , far from the city and into the deserted rural routes .  so far , the trip is idyllic when , abruptly , your car malfunctions and you are stranded in the middle of nowhere .  it is not an easy situation , but a perfectly plausible one , the panorama in which breakdown musters it's throbbing suspense and skillfully executed tautness .  it is not easy to cobble a distinct and gripping thriller nowadays , but breakdown doesn't bungle into rudimentary plot holes or cliches and it derives a masterful , titillating climax that by it's finale , engrosses a viewer with total absorption .  the plot is somewhat reminiscent of 1988's the vanishing .  kurt russell and kathleen quinlan respectively play jeff and amy taylor , a massachusetts couple en route to california for a brand new job .  when they stop for gas somewhere in the arid southwest , jeff is confronted by a pugnacious driver , who later , will be an important player in the plot department .  minutes later after that , their brand new , strikingly red , jeep grand cherokee unexpectedly stops .  jeff cannot detect the car's problem , so he allows amy to take a ride with red ( j .  t walsh ) , a heedful truck driver who will convey her to the nearest town , where jeff will meet her at a local diner .  it is facile for the film to turn into a pseudo-suspenser , but instead it opts for maximum fervor .  jeff manages to re-start the car himself , but when he arrives at the diner , she is nowhere in sight .  disconcerted , the coffee shop's bartender informs jeff where to search for his wife , a town about twenty miles from here .  there , trouble arises .  and i shall not reveal anything else , since that would be spoiling the fun of what's head .  there are many involving , tight scenes in breakdown but the final climactic period which includes a magnificent chase with three cars and a huge truck , will have you feeling as if your legs are made out of pure foam .  it is a pleasure to be part of a classic confrontation of good vs evil , and rooting for the good guys , in this case jeff .  kurt russell is one of the few top-notch hollywood actors which doesn't overblow his acting , and gradually gains reliance on his role as it progresses .  so you can assume his alteration in breakdown is letter-perfect .  suffice it is to say he undergoes a transformation , from a jolly man , to a guy frantically pursuing a loved one .  not many well-paid actors can deliver these type of performances , but russell is one of them .  as an everyday man , he pulls it off extremely convincingly , what also surprised me more was his rigorous physicality , which he effectively practices almost all throughout the films 93 minutes .  although the film is blotted with a couple of portentous action sequences ( very well done ) yet the tightness is generated by the subtle circumstances this man is presented with .  faced with an enigma about his wife's whereabouts , the movie succeeds by conveying us in realistic territory with veritable characters , including the cryptic villains , who in essence , make the movie what it is .  what's most impressive however , is the feature debut by writer/director jonathan mostow .  mostow , hitherto directed the showtime thriller flight of a black angle , alleviates the contrivances and generics of the script by gingerly pursuing the trajectory of the plot , efficiently letting the tone and the mood of the story generate that nail-biting suspense sought for in a well- made affair .  contrary to most american thrillers , he doesn't rely on visual flair , but on aesthetics and substance .  after breakdown , he should gain vast notoriety .  the villains in the movie aren't your routine out-of-this-world idiosyncratic psychos that are harming for no particular objective .  the baddies in breakdown , all well acted , are normal , seemingly inoffensive townspeople who beneath their trustworthy layer , conduct an amoral business of corruption and murder .  the movie smartly portrays these men as loathsome rednecks , and , of all things in the world , it is becoming rather easy to root for villains ( jon voight in anaconda ) in today's movies .  worth a special mentioning is j . t walsh ( who previously worked with kurt russell in executive decision ) as the leader of the gang , he renders a deliciously wicked performance , temporarily stepping out of the minor roles he is known for .  alfred hitchcock used suspense--and action-- not only to stimulate , but as a way of aiding his audience's fascination in his stories , which were slowly realizing man's biggest fears .  breakdown yields exactly that .  it magnificently taps into the psyche of an ordinary man , acting like an ordinary man , looking like an ordinary and some sort of superhero .  despite one or two iffy moments even hitchcock , i think , would approve of breakdown .   ( 1 : 33 ) 
neg@ tim robbins and martin lawernce team up in this road movie comedy .  robbins plays an exec who discovers his wife having sex with his boss .  he goes into depression , and drives around his neighbourhood until he arrives inside the usual 'ghetto' side of every american city .  there , lawernce attempts to steal his car , but to no avail , and is dragged along with robbin's on a trip to arizona .  there , they hold up a store , are mistaken for two other robbers ( just like in my cousin vinny ) and are chased by the police , and the other robbers .  of course , there's gags along the way , usually from lawernce .  although the film is midly funny , and quite watchable , there's something so horribly familiar about it all .  this film should really be called beverly hills midnight run there's lawernce with his wisecracking and heavy profanity , just like eddie murphy in beverly hills cop , and pratically the same idea as midnight run .  it's full of all the road movie cliches , and even has a 'comedy' car chase , which just seemed so eighties .  even the credit sequence seemed to be out of a steve martin , or chevy chase , eighties comedy .  there also isn't much chemistry between robbins and lawernce .  in planes , trains and automobiles , there was real chemistry between steve martin and john candy .  in nothing to lose , there is hardly chemistry at all .  towards the end the chemistry seems to work , but for the bulk of the film , there is hardly any ,  the director directs the film in a workman like fashion , but gets the jokes across .  and although there is no chemistry between the two leads , they give good performances on their own .  lawerence gives a good eddie murphy performance , and robbin's is alright aswell .  however , robbin's performance is nowhere near as good as the characters he played in jacob's ladder , and the player .  in fact , if you want to see robbin's do comedy much better than in nothing to lose , i suggest you rent out the hudsucker proxy , where he is much funnier .  nothing to lose does have some funny moments in it , however .  the humour isn't particulary sophisticated , but if you enojyed dumb & dumber , you might enjoy this .  the characters in arizona are funny , and there's also a good scene where robbin's asks a shopkeeper which 'threatening approach' was better , lawerences ( which consisted of lawerence threatening to shoot the shopkeeper's ass , and swearing a lot ) , or himselfs , ( which was speaking in a deep , scary voice ) but the gags are predictable , the lack of chemistry infurating , and the ending too far-fetched and 'perfect'  nothing to lose then , is robbin's first 'bad' movie ( and hopefully his last ) , and suggests that odereick should twice before making another film .  he nearly ruined carrey's career with ace ventura : when nature calls , let's hope he hasn't ruined robbin's ( or even lawerence's ) with nothing to lose . 
pos@  " it's not good to know too much about someone , charlie , " charles warns his niece , charlie ( margaret welsh ) , with a devilish grin .  charlie is infatuated with her namesake uncle , her " soul mate " as she calls him since her mother gave her his name .  there's a lot to know about charles , not the least of which is that he strangled 3 widows back east .  mark harmon , who looks like anything but a killer but specializes in playing them , plays charles , the merry widow murderer in the 1991 hallmark hall of fame remake of the 1943 hitchcock film , shadow of a doubt .  and to avoid any questions about his guilt , we see charles in action in the opening scene with his last victim .  the story takes place in the early 1950s in the small town of petaluma , california , where charles heads to avoid the police .  john gay's script uses most of the original screenplay by sally benson , alma reville , and thornton wilder .  karen arthur's direction is certainly no match for the great master , but on an absolute scale , the movie maintains a high level of suspense .  when supercilious and deceitful charles comes to pay a visit of indeterminate length with his sister and her family in petaluma , they don't know about his nefarious activities .  he showers them with elaborate gifts to buy the love they had already given him anyway .  two mysterious and exceedingly clean-cut writers for a magazine show up to take pictures of the family for a spread on the " average american family , " but their interest is focused on uncle charles , especially on taking his picture and learning about his background .  charlie , who first welcomed her uncle's visit , begins to feel more and more uncomfortable with him and suspicious of the disingenuous magazine reporters .  the picture advances with a delicate power using small details such as the newspaper article that the uncle tries secretly to remove and that charlie discovers .  the beauty of the story is the pas de deux between uncle and niece as they try to out psych each other .  she wants him to leave , and he doesn't want to go , what with a local , rich widow as a prospective victim .  will charles kill charlie first , or will she get him out of town .  harmon is wonderfully creepy and smug , and welsh is tough but trapped .  with a deft touch the director sets up each scene , several with thunderstorms , and tom neuwirth's sepia-toned cinematography makes the movie feel as if it were filmed in the 50s .  my only quibble is the director's awkward staging of the final scene on the train .  is hitchcock's version better ?  of course .  is this one worth watching as well ?  actually , yes .  shadow of a doubt runs 1 : 40 .  it is not rated but would be pg for adult themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up . 
neg@ if only austin powers : the spy who shagged me had been just half as original , zany , silly and totally enjoyable as its predecessor , it would have easily been one of this summer's biggest pleasures .  if only .  in fact , the spy who shagged me is the exact opposite of the original ; instead of refreshing the audience with one clever parody after another , the filmmakers bombard us with used-up , tired jokes taken directly from the first one .  take the scene where austin powers ( again played by mike myers , but with only a fraction of the giddy enthusiasm he displayed previously ) confronts a henchmen on the side of a cliff .  after being pushed off the ravine , the bad guy is of course assumed dead .  but suddenly , we hear a pleading voice coming from down below ; he's only injured .  a similar scene played very well in the original international man of mystery , but here i was insulted by it .  did the filmmakers really believe the audience would laugh at a rip-off ?  apparently i overestimated the intelligence of the average movie-goer , considering that the film has pulled in over $200 million in domestic theatrical grosses alone .  do i hear the sound of a franchise heading our way ?  having said that , though , i still cannot deny the film its merits .  the basic plot was delightfully silly enough to sustain my interest somewhat ; dr . evil ( mike myers , in the second of his three roles ) , having constructed a time machine , goes back to the year 1969 in an attempt to snatch austin power's " mojo " ( don't you just love that word ? )  whilst he is cryogenically frozen .  when austin gets wind of this ( after a great intro explaining the absence of elizabeth hurley's vanessa kensington ) , he too travels back in time to re-claim his sexual drive , accompanied by the hot-to-trot felicity shagwell , played by heather graham .  this sounds stupid , i know , but in the movie it starts to make some kind of weird , off-the-wall sense , and it worked for me .  then there's mini-me ( verne troyer ) , a . . .  petite clone of myer's dr . evil , exactly 1/8 in size .  troyer's persona alone gains the film an extra half-star , contributing to one particularly hilarious scene where he attempts to nibble on his own mini-mr .  bigglesworth .  just try to ignore the fact that , at 2'8'' , he would make dr . evil's height rise to just over 21 feet .  no matter .  however , there are only about four hearty laughs throughout the entire hour and a half ( the most notable being the now infamous tent scene ) , and that just isn't enough to warrant even a minor recommendation .  if there is in fact an " austin powers 3 " , they should just kill off secret agent powers and put the emphasis on dr . evil and mini-me .  unconventional , yes , but there's no denying that it'd make for a better movie . 
pos@ errol morris , critically acclaimed director of the 1997 documentary fast , cheap and out of control , vaults to new heights with mr .  death .  this film , an examination of the life and work of controversial execution equipment designer and revisionist historian fred a . leuchter , jr . , is sure to draw audiences out of their malaise , stunning even the more jaded minds among us .  don't let the film's cheesy dissuade you .  following this sideshow of horror-lab special effects we are plunged quickly into a non-stop exploration of the weirdness that is leuchter's life and mind .  morris follows the trail of leuchter's madness with appalling lucidity , revealing in a surprising and frightening way what most of us could have guessed to begin with : this leuchter guy is seriously messed up .  virtually raised within the american penal system by a father who worked within prison walls , leuchter seems to have come somewhat naturally into his profession ; designing and maintaining execution equipment for state penitentiaries , in spite of his lack of credentials .  after a moderately successful career making electric chairs and designing gas chambers and gallows , leuchter came to the attention of neo-nazi and revisionist historian ernst zundel , who was facing criminal charges in germany for publishing his `theory' that the holocaust never happened .  morris's interviews are surprisingly congenial , drawing the subjects into a carefree banter that gives them more than enough rope with which to hang themselves .  zundel speaks to the camera as though it were his mensch .  leuchter seems completely at ease , sometimes jovial .  part of this effect may be due to morris's new interviewing machine , called the interrotron , which is responsible for creating eye contact between the subject and the interviewer .  this was the first time morris had used the device , and the results are startling .  combine the irony of these interviews with leuchter's reenactments and reels of creepy stock footage of his trip to auschwitz and birkenau , not to mention a haunting clip of thomas edison electrocuting an elephant , and you've got one compelling and disturbing documentary .  while this film isn't for the feeble-minded or weak-hearted , it is a valuable addition to the cultural landscape .  aside from a few dragging minutes toward the end of the piece , morris has given us a fresh look at a dismal subject and i , for one , feel bettered by the experience . 
neg@ capsule : one of the ten worst movies ever made .  christopher lambert vs . evil ninjas in modern-day japan . . .  and nobody wins .  the hunted is such a bad movie , so completely inept and so totally brain-damaged that i could almost feel affection for it .  i could see myself showing this movie to friends and getting a good jolly guffaw out of it , if it weren't also insanely xenophobic and insulting .  christopher lambert plays a computer-parts salesman who's on business in japan .  he meets a slinky young woman ( joan chen ) and has a torrid night of lovemaking with her -- and then manages to witness her death at the hands of an evil ninja clan and their leader ( john lone ) .  apparently they had some unfinished business that could only be concluded with her getting slaughtered .  since lambert is a witness , he's of course the next one to die .  let's stop and think about this for a second .  if lambert were in real life being chased by fanatical devotees to a ninja secret society , he'd have a lifespan you could only measure with an atomic clock .  in this movie , the ninja manage to kill just about everyone except him .  i imagine the japanese gods smiled down on lambert and provided him with a goof field that radiates out about ten feet from his body .  you know what a goof field is : that invisible zone in which anyone who has intent to do harm to you becomes a klutz no matter what their real dexterity is .  this is , of course , only the beginning of the movie's problems .  lambert eventually finds pseudo-safety with a long-haired modern-day samurai ( yoshio harada ) and his partner -- yoko shimada , who you may remember as lady toda buntaro in shogun .  they are the two best things in the movie ; in every scene they have authority and presence , and they actually look like they belong here , even when dressed in full samurai armor and wielding bows .  the script doesn't know what the hell to do with them .  lone , as the bad guy , is zero-dimensional .  the only bad-guy cliche he has to wallow around in is the one about how the bad guy always has exotic women dripping off of him .  in the hunted , this is elevated to the level of an insulting stereotype .  what's funny is that the peripheral characters in the hunted are not sterotypes -- there's a nice little scene with a tokyo cabdriver , and a girl in a pachinko parlor -- but many of the main characters are unsalveageably hateful .  also , the phenomenal instrumental troupe kodo has assembled a superior soundtrack -- get the cd -- that manages to survive despite the drek it's been designed to accompany .  there is an extended battle scene in the middle of the movie that is almost reason enough to watch the whole thing -- a gory , excellently staged fight on the bullet train that shows some real imagination for a moment , and then smothers it by trying to clumsily re-couple the whole thing with the movie's relentlessly stupid plot .  by the time we get to the final showdown , with lambert getting to wield his own sword ( which , judging from the ham-handed editing of one scene , was forged in seven hours or so ) , we no longer care .  we're not even given any definitive information about whether or not one of the key characters lives or dies !  someone once said that the key to good art -- good movies , good books , whatever -- is to start somewhere interesting , end up somewhere interesting , and show respect for the audience all along the way .  this movie bungles two out of three , badly . 
pos@ there's an old saying that states something about leaving the best for last .  george lucas certainly followed that adage when crafting the original star wars trilogy .  return of the jedi , the final installment of the series , is easily the most innovative , action-packed , and entertaining of the three films .  the dark , eerie atmosphere that oozed from every frame of the empire strikes back is gone .  instead , for return of the jedi , we have good triumphing decisively over evil , a resolution to a love triangle , and walking teddy bears .  even darth vader doesn't seem very intimidating this time around .  with the arrival of the emperor ( an apparition-like creature played by ian mcdiarmid ) , vader has turned into somewhat of a henchman .  return of the jedi picks up at an unspecified time after the conclusion of the empire strikes back .  luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) , princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , lando calrissian , ( billy dee williams ) , chewbacca ( peter mayhew ) , c3p0 ( anthony daniels ) and r2-d2 ( kenny baker ) are on a rescue mission to luke's home planet of tatooine .  their goal : to save han solo ( harrison ford ) from the clutches of the intergalactic gangster jabba the hutt .  it is at jabba's home , a creepy-looking stone fortress guarded by hog-nosed beasts , that most of the added special effects come into play .  from a hysterical scene involving a music group to the dreaded beast outside jabba's sand barge , the effects are top notch .  as soon as han is freed from his cryo-freeze and rescued from the clutches of the evil jabba the hutt , it's back to outer space , where the rebel alliance is about to face the empire's newest threat : a second , more powerful death star , that , if activated , could spell doom for anyone who stands against the emperor .  so , while the fleet prepares for the final battle , luke and company travel to the forest moon of endor to knock out the shield that defends the death star against all attacks .  there , they are befriended by the ewoks , the teddy bear-like native race , and luke , fearing that his presence is endangering the group , turns himself over to vader .  return of the jedi has some interesting elements .  the scenes which pitted luke against the emperor and vader are suitably tense and well-acted .  from a technical point-of-view , the space battles are amazing , easily hindering anything depicted in the previous films .  not only are there many , many more ships , but their speed and range of movement have been dramatically improved .  on one level , return of the jedi is almost worth watching for the special effects .  in the special edition , even more ships are added , making the final space battle incredibly fun to watch .  the acting in return of the jedi is stronger than in the previous films .  by now ( or then - 1983 ) , mark hamill , harrison ford , and carrie fisher have all matured in their on-screen personas .  the chemistry amongst the trio is terrific .  as in empire , billy dee williams gives us another human hero to root for .  newcomer ian mcdiarmid plays the emperor as a suitably creepy , cunning , and evil creature , although he's not as imposing as vader was in star wars .  although it was great fun watching star wars and the empire strikes back on the big screen , return of the jedi generates a greater sense of enjoyment .  with the spectacular , new special effects , the adorable ewoks , the sinister jabba the hutt , the evil emperor , the same old millenium falcon , darth vader's incredible betrayal , the destruction of the new death star , and the always lovable yoda , return of the jedi concludes one of the greatest trilogies ever made with a huge bang .  congratulations to george lucas , whose innovative mind entertains us now and will continue to entertain generations to come .   , 
neg@ capsule : lesbianism examined in the same hushed and reverential tones reserved for a terminal illness .  potentially interesting idea made stagy and boring .  claire of the moon is such an impossibly serious and sober movie that i was waiting for someone to sneeze , just to break the ice .  it's a perfect example of what my wife calls an s . f . e .  movie , where s . f . e .  means so f * * * ing earnest .  movies like this need wit and brashness to be absorbing .  claire is one strained speech after another , written delivered with all of the energy and spontenaity of a dmv clerk .  claire takes two women , claire and noel , both writers , and throws them together in the same cabin at a women-only writer's retreat .  claire wrights light comedy , while noel is a scholarly authority on porn and sexual behavior .  obviously , the two of them are going to have plenty to talk about , and for the entire one hundred and twelve insufferable minutes of this movie , that's all they do : talk .  the movie sets up its ( microscopic ) plot with beat-a-dead-horse-into-glue obviousness .  the evening talks at the camp are chaired by a motherly type named maggie , a self-professed lesbian , and when noel owns up to also being a lesbian , claire looks like she's been hit with a sockful of wet sand .  the movie then quickly degenerates into lots of scenes where noel glances at claire with significance , and claire looks out over the water reflectively .   ( ugh ! )  the most amazing thing about the movie is how people so intelligent can talk so much and yet get so little through their thick heads .  all of this , of course , leads up to a scene of complete inevitability : claire and noel , in a scene that should have come an hour earlier , because then the movie ends without even the benefit of reflection about what's just happened .  we never get a hint about how any of this has changed anyone , only how they felt about things that didn't even happen yet .  the problem with claire . . .  is not lesbianism as such , but the leaden way it's handled .  why is it that any " serious " ( a better word would be adult or at least thoughtful ) examination of sex in a movie almost always winds up producing a movie that's unwatchably boring ?  the way this movie deals with lesbianism , we might as well be watching an overheated docudrama about aids .  many other movies have used the same subject in ways that are a thousand times better -- more engaging , more creative , more intellectually and artistically interesting .  look at john sayles' lianna , or the interesting and little-seen desert bloom ; both of them have more life and vibrancy than claire .  what this movie needed was a good swift kick in the pants . 
pos@ expectation rating : a bit worse than expected ( mainly because i found the middle part to be a bit dull ) .  roger ebert gave it a four star review , and while he is a critic that uses the full scale , and i often agree -- such as dark city being the best film of 1998 , he must have seen a better film .  i read the book about five years ago and hugely enjoyed it .  the opening of a simple plan reminded me a bit of the sweet hereafter .  the landscape is snowy and cold , and is filmed what i feel is in a rather crisp manner ( which also reminds me of fargo ( which i loathed ) ) .  one can almost sense the cold .  but the movie far from the eye popping delights of the quick and the dead , instead raimi has made a more constrained film -- which probably is for the better .  this is probably not a movie that would have been improved by lots of odd shots .  the movie also reminded me of affliction , as the lead characters all seem to be hoping for and seeing a possibility to lead a better life than their father , and they see a chance for such a dream to come true .  this chance is uncovered in a snow covered field , where an airplane has crash landed .  in the plane three men find ? the american dream . . .  in a gym bag . ?  affliction too was set in a snowy landscape .  it really seems very simple .  just hold on to the money until spring , and if no one claims it , they'll be safe to spend it and their hope of experiencing the american dream can come true .  but the snow melts , and so might several of the character's hopes .  as in ? return to paradise ? , some of the characters are presented with a chance to do the right thing .  but doing the right thing might not result in a better result than something more selfish .  the movie's biggest strength is that it fact makes sense .  i have seen many movies based on books that just seem like selected scenes from the book visualized , eschewing anything remotely resembling a coherent story -- for example clear and present danger .  the biggest problem seems to over-familiarization with the story .  the writer perhaps feels that he doesn't have to present scenes that are clear to him , but the lack of which only baffles an audience which has not read the book .  this is definitely not the problem with a simple plan , even though the screenplay is by the book's author .  the movie is always clear on where it's going , and always makes sense .  i'm sue a lot was cut , but really i can't remember what .  even a minor scene involving a man complaining that he has paid for too much grains is included .  the man only comes in on mondays , but he claims that he has been charged for one purchase too many .  turns out . . .  well , see the movie .  one should be warned against seeing the trailer .  it reveals several scenes from the ending moments ( which yes , like in the book , it is a downer ) , several plot developments , and much of the beginning .  but much of this is not spelled directly out during the trailer , so if you're lucky , you'll have forgotten about all of this when you see the movie . 
neg@ there is a scene in patch adams in which patch is in the center of a courtroom , surrounded by people who are giving him a lively standing ovation because of his strong-worded attack on a group of stoic doctors .  when i noticed that the audience with whom i saw this film was reacting the same way , i realized that i was going to have a hard time finding someone who agrees with me about the quality of the picture .  you see , patch adams revolted me beyond all boundaries .  i hated this movie for every second that i sat watching it , and i actively hate it now , days later , with the simpering , superficial , nauseatingly sentimental images forever plaguing my memories .  i hate every element of the film , beginning with tom shadyac's shameless direction , and all the way up to the misguided and mishandled themes that the screenplay wants so desperately to convey .  the badness of patch adams is stupefying .  it's confounding .  i can't believe a film can be this bad .  and yet , it's based on a real man who probably has a good point to make .  in the film , patch is played by the undefeatable and indefatigable robin williams , in a performance of such insulting pathos and sledgehammer sympathy that i wonder now if he is even human .  in the beginning of the film , patch commits himself to a mental institution because he doesn't want to kill himself .  while there , he notices that the doctors don't care about the patients , and that the best way to get through to the patients is to treat them like human beings .  so , patch goes on a crusade to be a great doctor who actually talks to his patients .  he goes to medical school , where he meets truman ( daniel london ) and convinces him that it's good to help people .  he also meets carin fischer ( monica potters ) , the anti-male med student who just wants to go through the motions and be a successful doctor .  naturally , the dean of the medical school ( bob gunton ) hates patch , and wants to thwart his plans , even though patch gets the highest scores on all of his exams .  so patch decides that he's going to build a free clinic in the middle of nowhere to help people with any problem they may have .  and that , my friends , is the synopsis for what is easily the most abhorrent picture of 1998 .  on a superficial level , the film is not particularly bad : i wouldn't say the cinematography bothered me , and most of the performances seem to be exactly what shadyac was aiming for ( i actually liked potter's performance , even if she is wasted ) .  but the film fails fundamentally in execution .  every scene swells with grand , " emotional " music , played at maximum volume just to get us all to cry real hard .  take , for instance , the first scene , which shows patch sitting on a bus .  we don't know patch yet , but there's sad music , and it's supposed to make us really sad that he's sad .  later on , patch makes a lot of progress : he helps a dying patient ( peter coyote ) to enjoy the last days of his life , and the music as patch is pushing the patient recklessly through the halls of the hospital is very lively .  and when that patient finally dies ( spoiler alert ! ) , the music is very very sad .  but the problem with all of this is that the music should not be the center of the emotions .  real drama is character-based .  you grow to like someone , and then something bad happens , and you feel it .  we don't ever grow to know the dying patient ; he's simply a vehicle for patch's greatness .  real drama doesn't seem forced , or present just to make the audience cry .  that's why patch adams is not real drama .  it goes for every cheap tear imaginable , wringing tired and overbearing sentimentality out of every scene .  even scenes that have very little impact on the overall film are drowning in marc shaiman's sickening musical score .  sentimentality like this is indeed bad .  but it's not as bad as half-baked , simplistic themes .  you see , patch is a really great student .  he aces his tests without studying , and does it so effectively that people think he's cheating .  but patch doesn't think that memorizing facts is the way to become a good doctor .   " why don't we see patients until the third year ? " he bursts out every three seconds .  well , patch , that might have something to do with the fact that you need to learn something before you go treating patients .  not everyone has the capability of memorizing facts with no effort .  most of us have to study .  and a doctor who really wants to help , but doesn't know a toe from a finger , probably won't be too successful in preventing death .  oh wait , i almost forgot : the point of doctors is not just to " prevent death , " but to " improve the quality of life ! "  yes !  that is true !  and you can not do that without studying .  you can not do that without going to medical school .  what patch never seemed to understand was the possibility that maybe , just maybe , it is a good idea to study first and talk to patients later .  follow the rules ?  bah !  who needs the rules !  only uptight doctors follow the rules .  the real saviors are the ones running around the hospitals with big red spheres on their faces and sporting baggy yellow pants .  and then there's the free clinic issue , which i find shockingly , frighteningly idealistic .  a free clinic .  in the middle of the forest .  where patients can be taken to be helped .  for free .  how will patients be transported to the free clinic ?  will it have an emergency room ?  or is it just for mental patients ?  and who , may i ask , will pay for it ?  the film does give some token attempts to question patch's motives ( i think another character asks him how he's going to pay for it , in addition to a little bit of meaningless blather about hmos and medical insurance ) , but they certainly don't explore or challenge patch's ideas to any meaningful extent .  reader , please understand this : i am not making any kind of judgment on the real patch adams .  i know nothing about him .  if his beliefs mirror those of this film character , then i might like to have an intelligent discussion with him about them .  but regardless of what the real patch adams believes , the themes put forth in this film are simplistic and phony .  and in the last scene , the big , obligatory courtroom scene that forced my lunch halfway up my esophagus , patch does a lot of shouting .  actually , robin williams does a lot of shouting .  he shouts a lot about helping people , and a lot of people cry because they are moved by his words .  i won't tell you that you can't be moved by his words , because i , too , was moved by his words .  i was moved in such a profoundly negative way that i was reminded of how cheap and phony a cinematic experience can be .  patch adams is the cheapest of them all . 
pos@ satirical films usually fall into one of two categories : 1 ) long-term satire where everything , including the jokes , is somehow related on a large scale ( i . e .   " dr .  strangelove " ; 2 ) situation satire in which the comedy and themes are derived moment by moment and scene by scene ( i . e .   " men in black " ) .  what's unique about " wag the dog " is that it doesn't necessarily fit either of these descriptions , and yet is both at the same time .  the result is a clever comedy based on an original , smart premise , even if the focus does tend to wander a bit .  if there's anything that affects americans the most it's politics and showbusiness .  in this age of information and technology , we've been so conditioned by the media and the entertainment industry in our ways of perceiving things , it's gotten to the point that we are practically controlled by it .  we need the media to bring us the most up-to-date news , but we also need the escapism of hollywood to counter all that thinking .  this film starts off well by quickly establishing these ideas , and then presents an interesting scenario : if politics , the media coverage of politics , and the entertainment industry are so closely related , couldn't someone with the power and authority to manipulate one of the aspects manipulate them all ?  that's the idea conrad brean ( de niro ) , a professional washington spin doctor , comes up with in order to restore the president's good name who has been accused of child molestation just weeks before the election .  brean , along with the president's top advisor , winifred ames ( heche ) , fly to california to meet up with hot-shot movie producer stanley motss ( hoffman ) .  they pitch him an idea to " produce " the image of a war with albania ( it's a country no one's heard of so they people will buy it ) .  soon the wheels are in motion and the film's riffing satire comes into play .  we're inundated with the hollywood mind set as motss brings in a number of experts to help manage the situation , such as a folk singer , visual and sound effects technicians , and a modern style expert known as the fad king ( leary ) .  the initial atmosphere is rich with numerous pop culture references where everything somehow relates to something on tv , in the movies , or in the news .  the characters' dialogue is witty and funny , although some of the actual jokes and gags seem rather sitcom-esque .  for example , one scene shows motss and brean's production crew filming an actress portraying a poor albanian refugee .  motss ordered a kitten for the girl to carry , but instead wound up with a dozen different dogs .  since it's all computer-enhanced anyway , she ends up cradling a bag of tostitos with the kitten to be inserted later .  this demonstrates the film's ability to take a relatively ordinary situation and make it smart and funny just through the premise .  but then there's the gags and one-liners that , although are humorous , seem a little gratuitious in the long run such as motss not being able to remember the actress's name , or , whenever a problem emerges , always responding with , " this is nothing ! "  by the time the film makes it to the midpoint , everything that is going to happen in terms of plot happens .  the first act is quickly paced , while the second act contains most of the jokes and is the core of the film .  every ten minutes or so a new problem crops up that motss and brean must deal with , and it's always fascinating to see what they do and how they do it .  the screenplay provides good characterization and actually deals with most of the problems head-on in realistic manners .  however , it does have a tendency to avoid things and shift its focus from the election campaign and false war smokescreen to something a bit off the subject .  as the third act rolls around the satirical nature becomes more concerned with the situations and less so with the big picture .  what had started off as a brilliant , somewhat harmless conspiracy to fool the general public begins to seem more like something that would happen in a movie .  still , the situation comedy is quite funny , especially a montage showing the entire country flinging old shoes into trees to honor sgt .  willie schumann - a war hero motss and brean concocted .  truly great satire manages to create for an entertaining story that makes you laugh at the time , but think about afterwards and " wag the dog " at least succeeds in this respect .  however , in retrospect it seems like so much more could have been done , namely by extending the running time and filling in the plot holes .  then again , it's a valiant effort . 
neg@ this movie is written by the man who is deemed to be " one of the hottest writers in hollywood " .  he wrote the groundbreaking screenplay for scream ( 8/10 ) , then added the successful i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 )  script to his mix , and also created the popular tv series " dawson's creek " .  so when he asked to direct his first movie , based on his first ever script written , everyone and their grandma said " sure , go for it ! " .  uhhm , my question is . . . did anyone bother reading this stupid script ? ? ?  plot : ace student leigh ann watson is mistakenly caught with some cheating papers by the bitchiest teacher in the west , mrs . tingle , and set to lose her scholarship to college .  when she and her friends visit the teacher at home in order to explain their side of the story , they end up tying her up , and slowly trying to talk some sense into the hardheaded woman .  critique : it's not so much that this is a bad movie , than the fact that it sucks .  this movie is chock-full of one-dimensional characters , contains no actual humor that i was able to zone in on , zero tension or thrills , plot holes the size of my big ass , lame pop tunes played to mask nothing going on in the movie , and molly ringwald , vivica a . fox and lesley anne warren tossed away in throwaway roles .  i was primed for this film as its interesting premise had me thinking misery ( 8/10 ) and 9 to 5 , but unfortunately for williamson , he went nowhere with the bright foundation , making references to the exorcist and dr .  zhivago , which i doubt many in his target market will appreciate .  he also forgot about suspense , with all of his characters based on incomprehensible decisions , unbelievable motivations and simply boring us with all of their trite dialogue .  sure , katie holmes is cute , and her co-star , marisa coughlan , did a reasonably amusing impression of the exorcist ( worth two points out of my three on ten ) , but how can we forgive the biggest one-dimensional character in any film , holmes' rival in the film , mrs . tingle's complete unprofessionalism being let go by all others around her ( are teachers allowed to behave that way nowadays ? ) and a transparent romance between holmes and some long-haired dude , hired to be the poor man's version of skeet ulrich ( who himself is a poor man's version of johnny depp ! ) .  all in all , this movie was laughable for me , provided me with no insight into anything , demonstrated williamson's genuine lack of directorial skills alongside a juvenile script , and provided helen mirren with a great role to chew into , unfortunately forgetting to give her character any believability , humanity or capacity to comprehend .  no hip lines , no cheap thrills , just a dull time at the movie theater .  if you want to see a funny teenage movie , go see detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) , and thank my drunken , sorry ass in the morning .  little known facts about this film and its stars : kevin williamson's father was a fisherman .  kevin used his knowledge of fishing hooks and winches when creating the killer in i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  he is also a huge fan of steven spielberg and coincidentally , so is dawson leery on tv's " dawson's creek " , a show kevin created .  he was once an aspiring actor .  in fact , he even landed a bit part on tv's " another world " .  also , williamson has gone on record to say that an unsupportive english teacher who once told him that he would never amount to anything was the inspiration for mrs . tingle , which is also loosely based on the book " killing mr . griffin " by the writer of i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) ,  lois duncan .  he has also come out and said that he is a gay man .  helen mirren was born in london , england under the name ilynea lydia mironoff .  she is married to director taylor hackford , whose works include devil's advocate ( 8/10 ) and an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) .  this film was originally titled killing mrs .  tingle , but was changed after the columbine high school shooting incident .  actress marisa coughlan will star in kevin williamson next tv project called " wasteland " .  this is actor barry watson first full feature film .  he has played the character of " seth " on tv's " malibu shores " several times . 
pos@ review : a dog of flanders is the story of an adorable little boy named nello and his trials and tribulations in 19th century flanders .  living with his grandfather jehan ( jack warden ) in poverty , nello finds happiness in his life in spite of difficult times ( they are renting a spare one-room cottage , and the greedy , malevolent landlord who owns it threatens to throw them `out of the house' if they don't pay the rent ) .  nello also has a rather creative talent for drawing some of the most beautiful pictures that i have ever seen , in either a movie or in real life .   ( his hero is peter paul rubens , the great flemish painter of the 17th century . )  not that these are the only things that make nello's life happy , however .  he has a dog of flanders , whom he names patrasche , who is a heroic rin-tin-tin of the 19th century , whom he rescues from his cruel , unkind master .  in addition , he even has a best friend ( and future sweetheart ) in the lovely , wealthy aloise , whose father strongly disapproves of her hanging out with `lower-class' nello .   ( he thinks he's not good enough for her , and he would hate the idea of the two kids marrying . )  but then , he was a poor guy himself before he married ( as mentioned later on in the film ) .  one day , nello encounters a mysterious , yet kindhearted artist named michel la grande ( played wonderfully by jon voight ) , who tells the boy to keep drawing from his heart , and that perhaps one day he might land a career in being an artist .  and every christmas , there is a contest on which is the most beautiful painting of the year ; the winner getting a lot of money .  eager to save his home ( and his aging , dying grandfather ) , nello willingly decides to become an artist , asking aloise to pose for him .  one night , the two travel to a circus , where they have their fortune told ? one of the film's most delightful scenes ? that great happiness is destined for them .  she gives the kids a ring , whom nello places on aloise's hand .   ; ) afterwards , the two kids have a rollickingly good time dancing around in front of circus performers .  unfortunately , things are not all `la-dee-dah' in this tale .  aloise's father finally becomes so angry with nello that he forbids him to ever see aloise again .  bad enough that they can't see each other ( although we know nello and aloise , don't we ? ) , but that's only the start of nello's troubles .  aloise's farm is burned down , and nello is wrongfully accused ( by the landord of his cottage ) for starting the fire in order to take revenge on being forbidden to see aloise .  this decreases nello's reputation around the town , save aloise and her parents , and a kindly miller , william , who is very sweet to nello every time he drops by .  matters get much worse for nello when his grandfather dies , and he has to pay for his funeral .  but then things really get nasty when the landlord exiles nello from his own home ( for not paying his rental ) ? permanetly .  this means that nello and patrasche have to starve and walk out in the cold , freezing wind .  worst of all , the painting that he has desperately been working on during all this time , `the portrait of the princess' , fails to win the prize at the festival .  now nello and patrasche are really depressed , and close to freezing to death .  will nello be able to find any happiness in his life ?  will patrasche save the day ?  will nello make the fateful trip to join his mother and grandfather in paradise ?  a dog of flanders is a delightful , heartwarming family film that is sure to entertain kids of all ages .  even older ones who consider themselves too `sophisticated' for kiddie fare will be surprised to hear that this film is for grown-ups , too .  there have been other movies of this ilk ( boy and dog ) , and while this one falls into that category , it is mostly a story about overcoming difficulties and finding a good home for yourself .  move over ? or rather , roll over ? old yeller , this dog of flanders is a heartwarming delight .  the cinematography , courtesy of walther van den ende is beautiful , and really adds to the powerful drama of the film .  it also gives a feel of being in flanders ( the whole film was respectably shot in flanders ) .  the music from richard friedman is also remarkable ; an evocative , poignant score that recaptures music from the 19th century .  the opening song over the credits is very beautiful ( i hope the soundtrack is available ! ) , and there's a brief excerpt of `cheer up , charlie' from willy wonka and the chocolate factory ( sung by aloise , to nello , in another delightful scene ) .  the cast is first-rate : jesse james and jeremy james kissner , who play nello , are some of the most endearing , adorable young stars i have ever seen in my whole life ( so are the girls who play aloise , madyline sweeten as the younger , and farren monet as the older ) .  not that they are the only good stars , however .  jack warden is ideal as jehan , eliciting just the right amount of humor and compassion required for the character .   ( the scenes involving him and nello are heartwarming , touching ones . )  also , bruce mcgill is charming as the kindly miller william .  he's another one of my favorite characters in the film .  but jon voight , as i mentioned before , is the perfect choice for michel .  he brings a mysterious , yet gentle performance that makes us all feel good again when he reassures insecure nello that he * can * win the contest .  but what makes this film fun to watch is how well-defined the characters are , and the pace of the story ( best of all , it has a happy ending ? though i will * not * give it away ; sorry ) is strong and powerful enough for us to identify with the characters .  for the first time since the beginning of 1999 , there comes a film which doesn't rely on popular formula stuff , such as big-budget special effects , commercial rock soundtracks , or any of that stuff .  this one relies on telling a fully character-oriented story , with just the right amount of heart , humor , and drama .  that , to me , is what makes a dog of flanders all the more delightful .  eleanor o'sullivan of `the home news & tribune' noticed this , and was kind and generous enough to welcome it : `for want of a better word , a glow surrounds a dog of flanders .  its heart is in the right place and it engages you .  you can guess where the film is going because this is well-traveled territory , but with pros like voight and appealing young performers like kissner , an often-told story is well worth a revisit . '  in addition , there were a couple of other enthusiasts , such as chicago-sun times and the washington post ( you should read their reviews ; they're really positive ) .  other critics , however , were not so kind .  stephen holden of `the new york times' had more than a share of beatings to lay upon a dog of flanders via pen writing .  he found the film to be a `sea of sugary bromides' and condemned mr . voight's character as `hopelessly wooden ? adopts an accent even more indeterminate than the one he came up with for anaconda . '  in addition , `entertainment weekly' slam-dunked the film , condemning it as `the worst family film of the year . '  there have been so many other bad reviews like this , too .  my suggestion : disregard the critics .  they just have a big problem with touching family films , and one should never pay attention to them .  this dog of flanders may only be a little `family' movie ( it probably won't be a big hit in the style of titanic , but then again no other film has been since then ) , but that is not a bad thing in and of itself .  this is a story that is sure to warm your heart , and that is what really matters about a dog of flanders .  it is also one of the better family films around this year .  none of the other films i have seen this year ( though they were good ) have been so low-key and touching .  if you're looking for family-style entertainment , look no further than this charming boy-and-dog yarn .  go see it while you still can , for as i mentioned , it might not be a big bow-wow at the box office for a long time .  see it while you can .  there is really no need to compare a multi-million dollar blockbuster such as star wars : episode i ? the phantom menace or tarzan , or even the iron giant with a tender , sweet little family movie . 
neg@ midway through " anaconda " , documentary filmmaker terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) turns to a co-worker and says " i thought this movie would be my first big break .  instead , it's turned into a disaster . "  truer words have never been spoken .   " anaconda " is a monster movie with a lousy monster .  it's a suspense film that is utterly predictable .  it's a mess the film does manage to drum up some scares , but only in the most elementary way , like a jack-in-the-box .  as you turn the crank , you're totally aware that the damn clown is going to pop up , but somehow it's still mildly startling when it happens .  the main difference between the giant snake in " anaconda " and the clown in a jack-in-the-box is that the clown is more realistic .   " anaconda " boasts some of the worst special effects to appear onscreen in years .  animatronic shots of the snake look as phony as any of those cringe- inducing robots you've endured at disney world .  but it's the computer animated scenes that truly expand the meaning of the word lame .  in one shot , a character tries to flee from the monster by diving from a tree near a waterfall , but the giant snake springs out and loops around its hapless victim in mid air .  the scene , if done well , would have been a jaw- dropper .  here , the horribly bad digital effects look less convincing than a saturday morning cartoon .  what's really amazing is that the filmmaker's were so proud of this dreadful shot that they actually included it in the promotional trailers for the movie .  but enough about the phony snakes .  now it's time to talk about the lousy story .  heroic and very pale anthropologist eric stoltz leads a documentary film crew down a brazilian river in search of the shirishama indians , a legendary tribe that supposedly lives in the boondocks of the rain forest .  stoltz tells his crew " pray that you didn't forget your bug spray . "  apparently the female crew members bathed in the stuff , because they spend most of the film wearing skimpy tops and short shorts with no ill effect .  along the way , the group rescues a whacked-out lapsed priest ( jon voight ) who claims to know how to find the shirishama .  within minutes , they throw away all their plans and follow voight down a tributary into the land of creepiness .  from that point on , the film is a hodgepodge of scenes and shots ripped off from " jaws " and " dead calm . "  one of the oddest structural points of the film is the handling of eric stoltz .  early in the story , his character gets knocked into a coma by a river insect and spends virtually the rest of the movie unconscious .  so why did they hire an actor of the caliber of stoltz for what amounts to a cameo appearance ?  also , why did stoltz , who generally selects his roles with great care , agree to appear in this crap ?  ah , the mysteries of hollywood .  the remaining crew members are basically just snake food waiting to happen .  jonathan hyde is mildly diverting as a pompous englishman hired to narrate the documentary , but lopez and ice cube manage to rise above their cardboard characters .  lopez , who starred in " selena , " is an enormously appealing performer , possessing a vibrancy that makes even the most trite lines seem credible .  ice cube has a special charisma ; an ability to look like a macho adult and a frightened boy simultaneously .  there's also a special twinkle in his eyes , as if he's gently mocking his own tough-guy posturing .  but the movie really centers around the outrageously hammy performance of jon voight .  obsessed with capturing one of the giant anacondas , voight plays the villain in thick accent , with a series of leers and hisses , spouting the kind of dialogue usually heard only in episodes of " jonny quest . "  at one point , he looms over the crew and says " the anaconda is the perfect killing machine .  it strikes , wraps around you , holds you tighter than your true love .  and you get the privilege of hearing your bones break before the power of its embrace causes your veins to explode .   " that moment is so high-camp that it almost made the film tolerable .  almost .  fans of the horror genre may be tempted to check out " anaconda . "  don't .  there are a lots of horror films scheduled for release this summer , including another " alien " sequel .  wait for them , rent " jaws " in the meantime , and don't throw away your money and time on drivel like this . 
pos@ the second jackal-based film to come out in 1997 ( the other starring bruce willis was simply entitled the jackal ) , this one stars aidan quinn and donald sutherland , and is directed by a man who hailed from joblo's own alma matter , concordia university in montreal , canada .  the story is based on the exploits of the real terrorist known as the jackal , but does not pretend to be 100% factual .  plot : naval officer ramirez ( quinn ) gets called upon by the cia to impersonate the international terrorist known as the jackal , in order to put an end to the actual militant's radical activities .  he is chosen for this role because he physically resembles the real terrorist to a tee .  ramirez reluctantly agrees to take part in this " assignment " , and soon finds himself wrapped up in a true web of international terrorism , intrigue and double-personality syndrome ( which does not sit well with his uninformed wife and kids back in the states . )  critique : great premise is executed with enough style and thrills to keep the piece interesting throughout its close to two-hour runtime .  admittedly , i wasn't a huge fan of any of the main actors in this film , and didn't expect much from this movie beforehand , but surprisingly it did have its thrilling moments , as well as a mostly plausible and absorbing story line .  the first hour is mostly just a build-up of things to come , and does offer a great characterization of the jackal , but the second hour is the one that really cranks in the cool scenes and a sweet ending .  quinn was adequate in both roles as naval officer ramirez and the real jackal , but didn't offer anything extraordinary , in my opinion .  sutherland and kingsley seem to be playing the same role that they've played in both of their respective careers of late , but nonetheless , appeared to relish the cold-heartedness of their chosen characters .  i didn't like performance put forth from quinn's wife in this flick , but then again , she doesn't show up in most of the film , so that wasn't so bad .  i did however enjoy director duguay's interesting style and cinematic vision .  this thriller could easily have been boring during many sequences , but duguay always seemed to find something interesting to show the viewer .  i thought that was neat .  having said that , i didn't think the first hour needed to be as long as it was , and the film did have me tinkering on the bridge of believability when the " fake " jackal met with the " real " jackal's girlfriend without much retrospection on her part , but all in all , not too many complaints in a movie that could easily be enjoyed by all those who take pleasure in the spy and terrorist thriller genre .  little known facts : ben kingsley's real name is krishna banji , he stands 5 " 8 , was born in scarborough , england , and won the best actor honor in 1982's academy awards presentation for the title role he portrayed in ghandi .  many scenes from this film were actually shot in montreal , canada ( joblo's haven of restfulness ) .  donald sutherland has fathered actor kiefer sutherland , is canadian , and apparently still owns a place in the north of montreal . 
neg@ robin williams is a comedic genus .  that is , he is one when he's in a film that allows him space to move .   " flubber " straps him in a straitjacket , covers him with duct tape , stuffs him in a coat closet and piles furniture against the door to make sure that he doesn't get out .  in a re-make of its own 1961 " absent minded professor " , disney offers us proof that more is definitely less .  recycling old films ( " that darned cat " , " 101 dalmatians " ) dressed up as new is the newest money machine from the home of the mouse that roared .  professor phillip brainard ( williams ) is a terminally forgetful scientist teaching at a small college .  his fiancee , sara jean reynolds ( marcia gay harden ) , president of the college is none too happy with him because he's left her waiting at the altar due to his lack of short-term -- and long-term -- memory .  she's giving him one more chance .  he blows that chance when he invents " flubber " ( flying rubber ) and is so excited by his discovery that sara jean is once again awaiting him in her white dress .  his tardiness is helped along by his jealous flying robotic assistant who wants him all to herself .  it's not all bad news .  flubber is a green jello that can magnify and reflect energy that is applied to it .  brainard realizes the commercial potential within the goo can save the school from bankruptcy and being taken over by the town's evil industrialist charles hoenicker ( raymond barry ) .  while he's busy with his new breakthrough , the slighted sweetheart is being wooed by his sleazy rival wilson croft ( christopher mcdonald ) .  there's a flying car , flubber-enhanced basketball game and an assortment of broken lab equipment : none of which are the least bit interesting or funny .  at one point , my son looked around the audience and asked " why are these people laughing ? "  although williams turns in one of his least inspired roles , he is easily the most lively of the actors .  everyone else comes across as half-asleep .  the re-make is successful in that respect .  it feels like a bad disney movie from the sixties .  i remember the original as being charming , but my guess is that the memory from almost four decades ago has been artificially enhanced by the years .  there have been some updates .  fred macmurray's flying model t has been replaced by a t-bird .  his faithful dog charlie is now " weebo " , the hovering robot .  the biggest change is that , with sophisticated computer animation , we now can have films show off special effects without being at all entertaining .  flubber is anthropomorphized into a being supposedly with personality .  the gloop has little arms and legs and splits into tiny little gloopettes for a big dance number .  this has nothing to do with the story .  the only possible reason is to create merchandising opportunities so that kids can badger their parents into taking them to mcdonalds for the toys .  not that contributing little to the plot is a big problem .  there are very few aspects of the film that move the story and those that do don't make sense .  the discovery of flubber is going to save the college because brainard can sell his flying car to ford .  anyone with half a brain would be able to see that his intelligent flying automaton is worth billions .  it's unbelievable that his lover ( well , probably not a lover -- after all this is disney ) starts dating croft after the aborted wedding .  there's not one appealing component of this man .  after the professor discovers that smearing a golf ball with the gunk causes it to bounce uncontrollably around his lab wreaking havoc , i cringed as he picked up a bowling ball .  this guy is beyond forgetful , venturing into the certifiable .  co-writer john hughes used to direct light-weight but thoughtful teen films .  the care behind " pretty in pink " and " the breakfast club " all went out the window after his " home alone " franchise heated up the box offices .  looking much like " home alone 3 1/2 " , " flubber " even features a couple of vapid goons who get banged around and a cute little boy who screams a lot .  in some ways , it's difficult to judge this film .  i have a suspicion that i'm not it's target audience .  after all , i measure my age in two digits . 
pos@ i rented this movie with very high hopes .  this movie got praise as one of the best films of 1998 , and unfortunately , was not as good as i hoped , but was still very intriguing and thought provoking .  first of all , the casting for this film is great .  tobey maguire and reese witherspoon are the future of hollywood .  they play their roles as the parker brother and sister perfectly .  with a plot as unbelievable as this film , you need chemistry and honest acting from your cast .  tobey and reese ( bud and mary sue parker ) play their roles perfectly and display their characters with honesty and believability .  william h . macy , an actor i have grown to love over the past year , turns in another great performance as the tv dad who is torn over his wife , a " colored " person and his friends , the " non-colored " ones .  he also displays believability and must display a certain lack of chemistry with his wife .  he does this perfectly and yet again shows why he should be one of the top actors in hollywood .  joan allen is equally great as betty parker , the ideal tv mom .  her character is the most ambitious .  she is very na ? ve , and must display this well to make her character believable and she does just that .  her lack of chemistry with macy , which the role calls for , and her developed chemistry with jeff daniels is terrific , and if daniels would have been as stellar as the rest of the cast , then this film would even been even better .  as said before , jeff daniels gives a bad performance .  his character displays the change going on throughout the town , yet he does not display it with enough conviction .  his character is very confusing and he is not very believable .  this film could have been elevated to a whole new level had daniels been able to give a better performance .  the movie is very provocative .  it challenges the issues of racism that existed in the past and that still exist today .  i really was not expecting all of the elements they brought up , but they pulled them off with such flair that it was mind blowing .  they demonstrate the racism issue without a hitch , but do it in a slow pace .  the only major flaw in the film besides the performance by daniels is length .  some films are not meant to be that long .  pleasantville is one of those films .  this film could have been so much better had they not moved so slowly to it .  first , they are amazed by the implementation of color .  then they want to have it .  then they do not want to .  then the war ensues between the colored and non-colored .  this is all strung out over two hours , which was way too long .  some movies need a lot of time .  saving private ryan was a little bit under three hours long and i thought it could have used more time .  this film is only two hours long , and seems much longer .  length is everything in films .  if you can nail down the perfect timing and pace , you can win half the battle .  pleasantville can move at a good pace at times , but it is not consistent enough .  overall , pleasantville is a very pleasant and provocative departure from the predictability of most films these days .  i went in expecting a light-hearted film about change .  i left learning an important lesson about racism and the way things change .  luckily , pleasantville teaches this lesson in such a way to make it appeal to all audiences .  only if it could have done in a shorter amount of time . 
neg@ phil ( radmar jao ) has a hairy problem .  his beard is growing so rapidly that he has to shave every hour .  he recently met the author of a non-fiction book on lycanthropy , also referred to in the movie as werewolfism , and phil now believes that his problem is that he has become a werewolf .  using enough chains and handcuffs to be a hit at a sadomasochists convention , he ties himself in at night lest his urges overcome him .  and phil is just one of the many quirky characters that inhabit shopping for fangs .  made on a pittance , the film features an almost exclusively asian-american cast .  as directed by quentin lee and justin lin , the movie is so amateurishly bad that it could almost be a parody of indie films .  jeanne chin plays katherine , a meek and soft-spoken wife , who worries that her husband is unhappy with her because she is not giving him enough sex .  we know this through the endless scenes of her confessing her sins , real and imagined , to her therapist .  as her husband , jim , clint jung plays a muscle man with a macho crudeness .  the picture is filled with stereotypes .  there's a mysterious , loud-mouthed waitress with a big , platinum blonde wig who brags to everyone she meets that she's a lesbian .  she spends most of the movie putting the moves on her favorite customer , a gay guy .  and the lone white with a major role , the author on werewolfism , has wildly unkempt , orangey blonde , curly hair .  from its opening scene of an attempted rape at knifepoint to its easy to guess ending twist , the script rarely has anything to offer .  the story is so minimally developed that it feels almost like the actors were ad-libbing .  one can only hope that the directors' next film will have some substance and some credible acting .  shopping for fangs runs 1 : 30 .  it is rated r for sex , violence , and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
pos@ after the press screening of " moulin rouge , " i stood in the lobby of the theater listening to the reactions of my friends and colleagues .  everyone seemed a bit numb , understandable after sitting through a barrage of often-incongruous sounds and images .  a pal of mine simply said that he loved the film and could hardly wait to take his wife to see it .  another enthusiast immediately began to analyze the production , while a woman who flat-out hated the movie gave him the skunk eye .  when one fellow quietly stated " i've never really been a fan of musicals , " the statement surprised me because , even though the story is told almost completely through song , i didn't think of it as a musical .  there is so much going on in " moulin rouge " that " musical " seems too small a term to cover it .   " moulin rouge " is the kind of creation that sends critics scurrying off to the big tub o' adjectives in search of proper words to describe the experience .  australian director baz luhrmann , the man behind " strictly ballroom " and " romeo + juliet , " fills the heads of viewers with unique camerawork , opulent imagery and songs ranging from " the sound of music " to " smells like teen spirit . "  sumptuous and beautiful , vulgar and overdone , " moulin rogue " travels through the looking glass while an ethereal stereo loaded with 50 years worth of catchy tunes operates on the " random " setting .  oh , and it has a story as well .   " it was 1899 , the summer of love . . .   " christian ( ewan mcgregor ) is a penniless young writer newly arrived in paris , " to write about truth , beauty , freedom and love , " where he encounters a group of bohemians , led by henri de toulouse-lautrec ( john leguizamo ) .  christian meets satine ( nicole kidman ) , a courtesan from the legendary moulin rogue , and his world transforms from black and white to technicolor .  at once fragile and vivacious , the dazzling red-haired woman sweeps him off his feet without even trying .  christian instantly falls in love with her and satine finds herself smitten with him as well , which is quite a hindrance for someone in her profession .  working with the bohemians and moulin rogue impresario harold zidler ( jim broadbent ) , christian writes an opus modestly named " spectacular spectacular . "  zidler quickly finds a backer , the wealthy duke of monroth ( richard roxburgh ) , but there's a catch ? the duke also wants the hand of the fair satine .  as if all that isn't enough , satine has a cough , and while a cough in the real world probably indicates a cold , it rarely turns out to be anything that simple in movie land .  like a teeter-totter , " moulin rogue " moves up and down between the ridiculous and the sublime .  one of the loveliest moments comes as christine and satine commune outdoors at night , becoming part of a defiantly unrealistic parisian cityscape straight from a book of fairy tales .  together they dance , while serenaded by the man in the moon ( alessandro safina provides the vocals ) , apparently transported from the classic georges m ? li ? s silent film to guard the nocturnal sky .  other scenes merely traffic in everything-and-the-kitchen-sink overload .  the cavorting of toulouse-lautrec and his comrades gets strained at times and some of their overt comedy , accompanied by cartoon sound effects , is overly reminiscent of the frenzied farce that sitcoms like " bewitched " beat into the ground .  of course , sensory overload was exactly what baz luhrmann had in mind .   " we never heard from baz to turn it down , " one of the actors told the los angeles times .   " it was always , 'more !  more ! ' "  the director even sent a note to his cast reading , " i dare you to make me say you've gone too far . "  the musical numbers reflect his attitude .  one knockout piece , the " elephant love medley , " incorporates the beatles' " all you need is love , " u2's " in the name of love , " dolly parton's " i will always love you " and elton john and bernie taupin's " your song . "  need more ?  how about " diamonds are a girl's best friend " spiced with portions of " material girl ? "  luhrmann's cast offers a wide variety of approaches that , together , add up to something messy , but often wonderful .  ewan mcgregor is extremely likable as christian , emphasizing the sincerity of the love-struck poet .  mcgregor's singing voice is robust and adds vigor at just the right moments .  once labeled the " ice queen , " nicole kidman melts that characterization with a sizzling , yet tender , performance .  she handles the songs adroitly , although her voice sounds a bit thin in the upper range .  veteran character actor jim broadbent is suitably larger than life as ringmaster zidler ? wait until you see him perform " like a virgin . "  as the buffoonish duke , richard roxburgh proves to be the film's weakest link , although i'm sure he was simply following instructions .  i suspect " moulin rogue " will be one of those love-it-or-hate-it films .  while i didn't completely love it , i most certainly liked it a lot .  over the course of a year , i see well over 300 movies , and most of them look like xeroxes of each other .   " moulin rogue " is an original , and an original , even a flawed one , is a thing to be cherished . 
neg@ wild things is a way to steam up an otherwise dreary early spring day ? provided , of course , that you're the victim of a frontal lobotomy .  there is , in fact , no doubt about who this motion picture is aimed at : movie-goers in their late teens and early twenties -- the most lucrative target group .  this is film noir for the mtv generation : fast-paced , slick , flashy , gleefully mindless , and hollow to the core .  wild things is easily one of the five dumbest movies to arrive in theaters during the first eleven weeks of 1998 .  i've seen more convincing drama ( with nearly as much bare flesh ) on that pinnacle of narrative quality , baywatch .  wild things wants to dupe viewers into thinking it's a thriller with a real story .  what it is , however , is a series of increasingly- improbable and shockingly predictable plot twists .  everything in between those serpentine moments is filler -- a flash of a breast , a spatter of blood , and some of the most idiotic dialogue this side of a steven seagal movie .  the film tries so hard to surprise its audience that the twists end up being easy to guess -- just take a stab at the most unlikely thing to happen , and that will probably be it .  using this approach , i was right three times and wrong only once .  that's not a good average for a production that wants to keep viewers in the dark about what's around the next corner .  the ad campaign uses two things to sell this movie : the hot , young cast and the old standby , sex .  both have an abundance of screen time , although i'll admit that the film's erotic content is somewhat less impressive than i expected .  nothing about wild things is exceptionally risqu ? .  the soft-core sex sequences are generic , and don't generate much heat .  the lesbian kisses can't hold a candle to those in bound .  theresa russell and denise richards have only token topless appearances ( neve campbell , possessing an iron-clad " no nudity " clause in her contract , keeps her clothes more or less on ) .  the film's greatest curiosity is a full frontal shot of kevin bacon climbing out of the shower .  maybe a few girls will skip seeing a fully-clothed leonardo dicaprio for the thirteenth time in titanic to catch a glimpse of what kyra sedgwick ( mrs .  kevin bacon ) is familiar with .  the director of wild things is john mcnaughton , whose last effort was the finely-tuned psychological thriller , normal life .  that movie featured copious sex , a pair of real characters , and a powerful script .  it's difficult to believe that something this shallow could come from the same film maker .  but i suppose we all need to put food on the table .  mcnaughton appears to have completely lost his way here , in what is obviously a stab at mainstream success ( his previous wide-release picture , mad dog and glory , was a box-office disappointment ) .  quick cuts and pretty sunrises can't even begin to cover up this movie's flaws .  the main character ( and i use that term lightly , since no one in wild things shows more than an occasional flash of personality ) is sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) , a guidance counselor at florida's blue bay high school .  a student , the deliciously curvaceous kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) , has a crush on him .  one afternoon , she comes to his house to wash his car , and , when she leaves , her clothing is torn .  after confessing to her mother ( theresa russell ) that she was raped , she goes to the police station , where she tells her story to detectives ray duquette ( kevin bacon ) and gloria perez ( daphne rubin-vega ) .  they are skeptical about here claims until another girl , suzie toller ( neve campbell ) , comes forward with a similar tale .  meanwhile , sam , convinced that he's being set up , goes to a shyster lawyer ( bill murray ) for help .  the acting in wild things isn't very good , but none of the principals have much to work with .  this is definitely not a character- based motion picture .  not only does the ludicrous screenplay ignore the possibility that someone in the audience may have a triple-digit i . q . , but it doesn't bother to give any of the on-screen individuals even a hint of depth .  the men and women populating the picture are there to look nice , but nothing more .  matt dillon is given plenty of opportunities to flex his biceps .  neve campbell gets to model the slutty look .  denise richards strikes a fetching pose in a see-through , one-piece bathing suit .  and nothing in the film gets a rise out of kevin bacon .  the only one who's even remotely interesting is bill murray , and he seems to think he's in comedy , not a thriller ( maybe he's got the right idea ) .  columbia pictures has specifically requested that critics not reveal the film's ending , which prompts the question : which ending do they want kept secret ?  wild things has no less than three ( one occurs during the end credits , so stay seated ) , all of which are jaw-droppingly absurd -- a feat that joe eszterhas ( the writer of basic instinct and showgirls ) would be impressed by .  thanks to jeffrey kimball's polished , kinetic cinematography , wild things always looks great , and george s . clinton's score keeps it pulsing and throbbing .  but , no matter how shiny the superficial sheen is , this is still trash , and , like all garbage , it stinks . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " the closet " ( miramax films )  in this hilarious french farce , a shy , boring accountant ( daniel auteil ) named francois pignon discovers he's going to be fired from his job at a condom factory .  lonely and distraught , he contemplates suicide .  but then he runs into belone ( michel aumont ) , an elderly homosexual neighbor , who suggests a " sex discrimination " lawsuit to intimidate management .  as evidence , belone concocts provocative photographs of pignon locked in a leather-clad embrace with another man and mails them anonymously to pignon's boss .  when the racy snapshots start circulating around the factory , not only does pignon get his job back but he suddenly finds himself the focus of attention as an openly gay man .  his lusty supervisor ( michele laroque ) is so intrigued that she wonders if , perhaps , she could change his sexual preferences .  even his ex-wife ( alexandra vandernoot ) and indifferent teenage son ( stanislas crevillen ) drop their disdain .  but not everyone is enchanted .  a mucho macho co-worker felix ( gerard depardieu ) , a self-righteous homophobe , is stunned and repulsed when he's forced by the pr director ( thierry lhermite ) to grovel and court pignon's friendship or risk losing his own job .  writer/director francis verber artfully milks the farcical comedy as he dissects the hypocrisy of political correctness , veering off-track only occasionally into pedophilia .  daniel auteuil ( " the widow of saint-pierre " ) is delightful - particularly with a blown-up condom perched on his head , riding on a float in a gay pride parade - and gerard depardieu delivers one of his most restrained , and effective , performances .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the closet " is a frankly sexual , adult 8 .  it's so clever , in fact , that hollywood is already planning to re-make it in english , like " la cage aux folles . " 
neg@ there have been bad films in recent years : 'mr .  magoo' was by far the worst ever made , the spectacularly bad 'blue in the face' , the horrible 'baby genuises' and now 'i woke up early the day i died' .  it may not however be the worst movie made but it certainly ranks as one bad movie .  the film's acting ( if that's what you want to call it ) is well mediocre to me .  loaded with a sensational cast you would think that the cast would at least save the film a bit , boy was i wrong .  after escaping from a mental institution 'the thief' played by billy zane goes out in the real world and finds that it is pretty harsh and gritty .  he turns to burglary to survive , robs a loan back , kills the loan officer and runs with thousands .  a country-wide man hunt is on for him to catch him and bring him down .  he ends up in a cemetery where he puts his money in a coffin to keep it for later , comes back and realizes that someone took it and put it somewhere .  now he is determined to kill all the visitors at the funeral earlier that day until he gets his money back , ultimately leading to a finale that is less that satisfying .  a film which was based on a 'long-lost' script by ed wood , i have only one question : no dialogue , only music and movement where exactly is the point ?  the film moves along at a rather slow pace , but does have one advantage : the soundtrack which is catchy and vibrant except the first song which can be offensive to some .  it opens with a fun , innovative opening credits sequence and quickly goes downhill after that .  some of the low points are when 'the thief' steals a woman's purse , and then she faints , sandra bernhard as a dancer and tippi hendren as a deaf woman whom 'the thief' kills to the music of 'psycho' .  come on people get some new ideas already !  what's even worse is that the film has no plot at all .  well to a certain extent it does , but who cares by the time the middle of the film arrives we're bored out of our mind and ready for something fun and exciting to happen .  'i woke up early the day i died' is a perfectly bad film .  it shows us how low filmmakers get sometimes just when desperate to make a movie .  even with the huge cast talent , the film is a waste of my time and certainly a waste of yours . 
pos@ everyone's heard about this movie , and more specifically , * the * scene .  everyone's heard the famous barnyard animal quote squealed ( no pun intended ) over and over .  and everyone's got to admit that they will never travel down a river again without thinking of deliverance .  good !  that's what you're supposed to do !  oh , if you are one of the ones who hasn't seen this yet , or you ( somehow ) haven't heard about what happens , here's your spoiler warning .  deliverance was a real shocker for it's time ( 1972 ) .  major advances were being made in films , and deliverance made its own advances when it introduced a new horror into the film industry .  when it was first released , it literally shocked the audiences .  it was something that , for the most part , had really never been seen on the big screen before ( among wide-release films with an r rating ) .  but by today's film standards and in today's world , such scenes as the one in deliverance can be reproduced in a way that isn't as shocking , although they can be even more graphic ( e . g .  pulp fiction ) .  pulp fiction did it in a way , and expanded on it in a way , that it could even be interpreted as funny .  but in 1972 , deliverance was no laughing matter .  the story centers around a group of four atlanta men who decide to take a rafting trip down a backwoods river in georgia while the river is still there and in its glory .  the initial leader of the group is lewis ( burt reynolds in his prime ) , a real outdoorsman and more of a daniel boone-type then any of the others .  joining him are ed ( jon voight ) , bobby ( ned beatty ) , and drew ( ronny cox ) .  the group's first objective is to find someone ( s ) to drive their cars down the river to the point where they will end their trip .  they make arrangements with a few mountain men , who accept $40 . 00 for the task .  drew also has the famous " dueling banjos " competition with a local who is , let us say , genetically challenged .  the men then set off down the river , with lewis , also the master at canoeing , leading the way .  everything seems to be going fine , until the two canoes split up , leaving the unexperienced ed and bobby alone .  they encounter two hillbillies , armed with a shotgun , who captured them .  ed is tied to a tree while bobby is sodomized by one of the men .  ed nearly receives the same cruelty , but lewis arrives just in time to fire an arrow through the rapist's back .  the other hillbilly gets away , and the men have to decide what to do with the dead body .  disposing of dead bodies is done rather frequent throughout this film .  while attempting to make a quick " paddle for it " , both canoes tip over .  drew , who was without a life jacket , was possibly shot and cannot be found .  lewis suffered a rather nasty compound fracture during the incident and is in serious condition .  this leaves ed and bobby .  ed decides to go out and look for the remaining hillbilly , alone , with the bow and arrow .  the question arises if he will be able to handle himself , as he horribly botched a first shot attempt at a deer , to which his comment " i wonder how anyone could kill a living thing " will have more meaning in the future .  deliverance is definitely a wild ride ( oops , i'm doing it again ) .  it is extremely tense at some points and very dramatic .  it's definitely one of those " must see " movies and should be considered one of the classics of its decade . 
neg@ first troy beyer wrote the critically panned " b . a . p . s . "  now she makes her directorial debut , writing , directing , and starring in this sub-par film about women talking about sex .  though not without redeeming qualities , this film is bad .  the basic story follows three single friends -- jazz ( beyer ) , lena ( randi ingerman ) , and michelle ( paget brewster ) -- in their search for love .  jazz has an idea for a local talk show ; it would feature women talking about sex and dating .  she and her friends make a demo tape of interviews with the women of miami .  the film itself is sprinkled with these real interviews throughout , both as part of the plot and as commentary on the situations of the main characters .  the fact that they are real provides a refreshing break from some of the more melodramatic moments in the film .  there are several moments of bad acting , corny dialogue , and emotional overextension .  in a low-budget independent film from a first-time director , these faults can sometimes be forgiven , if the screenplay is fresh and solid .  that is not the case here .  the script suffers from random plot developments .  there are four or five of these turns in the plot , each one raising the question " where did that come from ? "  at one point , a character has a lifelong reconciliation with her mother .  we are supposed to be moved , but since the scene is completely un-led-up to , we really don't care if she and her mother get along .  we've never seen her mother before .  we never see her again .  who cares ?  what's worse , these sudden developments are supposed to engage our sympathy .  at another point , a character announces that she can't have children .  apparently , this is devastating .  we wouldn't know this because she never talked about having kids before , but we are nevertheless expected to be devastated for her .  the scene feels like an afterthought , its emotion manipulative and shallow .  these scenes grow worse and worse , culminating in an absurd climax .  two scenes were played with such overwhelming melodrama that i found myself laughing .  one scene is a lover's spat between two minor characters .  the other has the main characters expressing their copious grief by cleaning house in wails of despair and clouds of ajax .  thinking on these scenes , it is hard for me to admit that the film has redeeming qualities .  but it does .  first , it is original .  we men often wonder what women talk about when they are alone in groups , and i imagine this film gives me a pretty good idea .  it's something i don't think has been the subject of a film .  second , the interviews of the miami women are sincere .  taken together , they form a mosaic picture of miami beachwalkers and bistro diners .  the mosaic is made of sound bites and stereotypes , but each tile is some woman's real experience .  neither the picture of women , nor their picture of men , is truly representative , but the point is that both sets of generalizations are telling in their own way .  at some level , the stereotypes that emerge can be called true .  i can imagine some people liking this film when its characters talk about their " likes , dislikes , skills , and thrills , " but on the whole , it's pretty bad .  and that makes it even harder to forgive the bad acting , corny dialogue , and emotional overextension .  i'll give beyer one more strike , and then she's out .  rated r ( almost got an nc-17 ) for explicit sexual dialogue and nudity . 
pos@ insane ( but inspired ) musical about alferd packer , the first man ever tried for cannibalism in america .  as the story unfolds we learn what events led to packer ( trey parker ) supposedly killing and eating the five men who got lost while accompanying him through the mountains of colorado in search of gold .  throughout , packer must contend with evil trappers bent on stealing his prized horse , a tribe of `ute' indians that doesn't seem quite on the mark , and a terrible winter storm that leads to the eventual cannibalism .  parker obviously knows his musicals very well , because the viewer is also treated to some of the most maddeningly catchy songs to appear in a film ( he would accomplish this again in his post-cannibal !  musical motion picture , south park : bigger , longer , and uncut ) .  apart from the inherent interest of seeing a pre- " south park " parker and stone in their first effort , cannibal !  also offers up some pretty decent laughs .  the aforementioned `ute' indian tribe that packer's group encounters is a definite highlight , as are two rousing musical numbers about snowmen ( one of which ends on a comedically deadly note ) .  stone's humphrey character steals the show , especially when complaining about the prospect of having to `eat butt' or revealing what's underneath his muff cap .  jason mchugh's character of mr . miller is the stand out performance though , as he offers a hilarious dissenting voice to the proceedings .  as i mentioned before , parker's songs are very catchy .  you'll be hard pressed to get `it's a shpadoinkle day' out of your head once you've heard it ( incidentally , the braniff logo that appears at the end of every " south park " episode is scored with a few notes from this song ) .  other songs you'll find yourself humming include `when i was on top of you' ( a love ballad ) , `the trapper's song' ( the villains leit motif ) , and `hang the bastard' ( the rousing finale ) .  thankfully , none of these songs are quite as embarrassing to find yourself singing in public as south park : bigger , longer & uncut's songs are .  released as a pick-up through troma studios , the film is available on videocassette and dvd .  the videocassette includes an intro by the beautiful jane jensen and an interview segment with lloyd kaufman , discussing his admiration for parker and stone and the fact that they had been hired for a zucker brothers film ( which turned out to be the hilarious baseketball ) .  there are also multiple trailers for upcoming troma films .  as for the dvd . . .  well , that's a different story .  probably one of the best dvd packages of the year ( and potentially of all time ) , cannibal !  the musical !  the dvd is a massive achievement .  presented in 1 . 33 : 1 ( full frame ) only , the disc has the usual troma inclusions : the tour of troma , the troma intelligence test 2 , trailers for upcoming releases , but where the disc truly shines is in its cannibal !  specific extras .  the first thing i must note is , the transfer is about as beautiful as any i've ever seen on any disc .  the picture is crisp , clear , and free from any noticeable artifacts .  add to that one of the funniest commentary tracks i have ever heard , featuring trey parker , matt stone , jason mchugh , dian bachar , and andy kemler getting drunker and drunker as the track continues and you still haven't scratched the surface of the extras .  there's also behind the scenes footage of the shooting of the film , a clip with trey , matt , and lemmy ( of the band motorhead ) from the film terror firmer , an index for easy location of all of the songs in the film , and finally , an index of all the songs as performed by the cast of a stage production of cannibal ! .  it's good to see this film finally get the treatment it deserves .  kudos to the entire production staff at troma and aix for making one of the most entertaining dvds i have seen in a very long time . 
neg@ capsule : dumb dud of an entry in the body heat sweepstakes , and now something of a landmark for having spawned a jillion clones .  basic instinct's worst crime is that it's not just a bad movie , but in many ways , an incompetent one as well .  it's stupid in itself , and stupid to think its audience is as stupid as it is .  it's supposed to be a thriller , but the plot is dead on its feet , and ultimately arbitrary ; it's only put into the movie to jerk us around .  it's also supposed to be sexy , but it's instead got the unpleasant rawness of a teenager showing younger kids his collections of dirty pictures .  it's a ripoff .  the story opens with a rock star being murdered while in the throes of orgasm .  the biggest suspect is an authoress , catherine tramell ( sharon stone ) , who wrote a novel in which the murder was eerily presaged .  or maybe it's the work of a copycat ?  these and other plot threads get fed to the detective who's on the case ( michael douglas ) , who has a few problems himself .  like we wonder if his elevator goes to the top floor .  we can measure with a stopwatch the time from them setting eyes on each other to the moment they are doing the mattress dance .  joe eszterhas has written the screenplay , and he uses a device that he used before in the much better jagged edge : the killer's identity is kept a secret until the movie's final shot .  this isn't in itself a problem -- the problem is that up until that point , we've been given nothing to work with .  every clue in the movie -- every clue -- is ambiguous .  the whole thriller aspect of the movie is a shill .  red herrings , dead plot threads , violence , and kinky sexuality litter the movie like potholes in manhattan streets .  they add up to zip , because they're not happening to people we care about .  douglas's character is foulmouthed and bitter and that's it ; stone's character has an iron-on smile that never changes ; the rest are forgettable .  when we don't even have the luxury of giving a damn about anyone in the movie , who cares what happens in it ?  especially with an ending that is not only unsatisfying , but in many ways inexplicable ?   ( a friend of mine once came up with a rule of thumb about movie characters : " if no one in the movie behaves like anyone you know , or would * care * to know , just leave ! " )  one of the nastier things about the movie is the way it treats lesbianism not as an integral part of someone's life , but as a kind of kink -- something to thrill men with .  i despair whenever i encounter this kind of stupidity in mainstream entertainment ; are we still so culturally neanderthal that the only way to include something like that in a big-budget hollywood film is as a hefnerism ? 
pos@ a big surprise to me .  the good trailer had hinted that they pulled the impossible off , but making a blues brothers movie without jake blues ( john belushi ) is such a dumb idea i really had no hope .  they replaced him just fine .  not with john goodman , he didn't do much of anything , but with the brilliant actor joe morton , who can really sing .  the fourth blues brother is j evan bonifant , who's ten .  this was another of my fears for the film , but he's a really good dancer , and plays a mean harmonica ( although he may have been dubbed ) .  things that intellectually had bothered me before , like no mission from god , everyone being richer , it not being filmed in chicago -- gave me no problems at all .  i'm quite pleased that there were less car pile-ups , because they meant less music , and john landis seems to have lost interest in the whole thing .  there's a few early crashes , and then one huge pile-up , but after that it all stops .  it's just the music .  one of my problems with the first is that cab calloway's song is so good the actually blues brothers look dull after him , but there's no problems with this .  the music is all as good as ever , tons of great musicians showing up -- with the exception of johnny lang , who can't sing , all the musicians do a great job .  the only real problems i had was the special effects .  these were superfluous and a waste of money .  since the film isn't doing very well , they could mean we have no possibility of another sequel , which i want to see .  the bluegrass version of riders in the sky is even better than rawhide .  -- http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/academy/8034/  remove no spam to reply .   " drive carefully but recklessly " , mama , child's toy " the only excercise i take is walking behind the coffins of friends who took exercise . "  peter o'toole 
neg@ in the line of duty is the critically praised series of television movies dealing with the real-life incidents that claimed lives of law enforcement officers in usa .  the twilight murders , another one from the series , is dealing with the case of gordon kahl ( played by rod steiger ) , old farmer from north dakota who would rather spend a year in prison than pay taxes to the despised u . s . government .  after being released , he still refuses to pay taxes and the warrant is issued for his arrest .  when the u . s . marshals come to arrest him , it turns out that kahl isn't alone .  many poor farmers in rural northwest share his extremist anti-government beliefs , and the routine operation turns into shootout that would leave federal officers that .  that brings fbi on the scene , and agent mayberly ( michael gross ) is supervising the manhunt .  however , his efforts seem fruitless , since kahl still has many supporters , some of them even in the local law enforcement .  after betrayed , 1988 thriller by costa gavras , hollywood mostly ignored the disturbing trends of rising right-wing extremism in the american northwest , and that remained so until oklahoma city bombing , when media hype brought right-wingers back into spotlight .  until that time , only the television movies like this one bothered to pay attention to that phenomenon .  unfortunately , the twilight murders is still routine and formulaic television film , that uses sensationalist real life content in order to cover lack of originality in the script .  sometimes , like many american tv movies , it creates drama where drama shouldn't be .  on the other hand , film is steadily directed by dick lowry , and rod steiger does good job potraying gordon kahl .  on the other hand , michael gross as his pursuer is quite wooden and his interaction with some of the actors is terrible .  however , film does deal with potentially thought-provoking social and political issues , so hour and half spent in front of the screen shouldn't be the total waste of time . 
pos@ disney's 35th animated feature-- a retooling of the olympian legend crossed with , well , the superman story-- is surprisingly soft at the center .  great wit , great art , and a great villain ( james woods as hades , lord of the underworld and local lounge act ) can't quite stifle the yawns induced by a bland hero , his colorfully monotonous sidekick ( danny devito as the satyrical trainer phil ) , and a largely unremarkable soundtrack .   ( none of the alan menken/david zippel tunes are particular- ly noteworthy .  some lack lyrical snap .  others need more memorable melodies .  boring ballads we expect , but boring production numbers , too ? )  so , hercules is a bit of a long sit , but you won't stay bored .  the highlights include a nifty round of animated action ( herc battling a cgi hydra ) , a steady stream of anachronisms ( " somebody call ix-i-i " ) and pop references ( " let's get ready to rumble ! " ) a la aladdin , and several long-overdue jabs at the mouse's marketing and merchandising depart- ments .  while not as rock-solid as hunchback , it's a still a new world of improvement over pocohontas .  directed by ron clements and john musker , with voice credits including tate donovan , susan egan , bob goldthwait , matt frewer , samantha eggar , paul shaffer , and , as lighting bolt zeus , rip torn , who's having a very good summer , also appearing in trial and error and men in black . 
neg@ you know that a movie has issues when most everyone in the audience comes out laughing . . . and  it's not a comedy !  and what a strange career path for director chuck russell .  he starts his career off with a decent take on the " nightmare on elm street " series with his debut as director on installment number three .  he follows that up with the blob the very next year , but waits another six years to do his next piece , a little film called the mask starring jim carrey , and then one more star vehicle in eraser two years after that .  so then he thought , " let me wait another five years , get a weak script jammed with cliches and hope that jimmy smits and kim basinger could pull it out of its ashes " ? ! ?  strange dude and one crappy flick .  plot : a six-year old girl is believed to be some kind of mysterious prophet sent down from god .  a satanic cult wants the girl to switch over to their side , while the girl's aunt wants to . . . well ,  save her from those damn devil worshippers !  enter one occult expert agent , plenty of bobo cops and lots of nuns praying , and you've just about got the gist of things here .  critique : with plot holes the size of my ass , this movie barely squeezes any sense out of its clich ? -ridden plot , with wasted talent , cheezy effects , bad dialogue and unintentional laughs to boot .  what's good about this movie ?  well , rufus sewell is pretty fun to watch as the head of a creepy runaway children's shelter/satanist supreme , with seriously wicked eyes and just enough ham in his performance to go with all of the cheese lying around .  the little girl is also pretty good but unfortunately her character doesn't really do all that much .  and believe it or not , i was actually enjoying some of the film's first half hour , which starts off with some promise , but not before bonehead moves after bonehead moves from our protagonist , basinger , just drown the film's entire basis of believability .  for some reason , it takes her more time than anyone to figure out that her niece is gifted , and even longer to figure out that every move that she makes . . . is  a dumb one !  add that to the entire police force of incompetents , save for jimmy smits ( whose talent agent advised him that playing the exact same cop character from nypd blue would be a good career move ?  at least change the clothes , jimmy ! ) , zero scares , zero thrills and even less actual drama , and you've got yourself a pretty bad movie .  and why would respected actors like christina ricci and ian holm take bit parts in this movie ?  did they owe the director a favor or something ?  together , they barely have five minutes of screen time , but i suppose that ricci's hospital room scene might be worth a look for some of you horn-dogs .  the worst part about this movie is its hilariously unbelievable ending , which features police officers coming up with the brilliant idea of " sneaking up " on a man's house , who they know to be guilty of a crime !  uuuhmm . . . how's  about knocking on the door and arresting his sorry ass , officers ? !  anyway , i don't usually inscribe spoilers in my reviews but the stupidity of some of these characters is just too difficult to describe without validating it with solid idiotic proof ( and there was plenty to go around ) .  and did basinger lose some of her acting " talent " during her hiatus from the profession after her 1997 oscar win ?  difficult to say if it was her lines that were really bad , or if she just delivered them poorly .  either way , little originality , very obvious computer effects , little thrills , little drama and very little entertainment value , certainly bestow the honor of one of the worst movies of the summer upon this film .  but if you really don't mind a rehashed gobbledygook of various satanic and " kid " -based thrillers , and enjoy watching films that don't bring anything new to the table . . . well ,  drink some beers , smoke some beans and rent this video , because it may just be one of the funnier thrillers of the year . 
pos@ `strange days' chronicles the last two days of 1999 in los angeles .  as the locals gear up for the new millenium , lenny nero ( ralph fiennes ) goes about his business of peddling erotic memory clips .  he pines for his ex-girlfriend , faith ( juliette lewis ) , not noticing that another friend , mace ( angela bassett ) really cares for him .  this film features good performances , impressive film-making technique and breath-taking crowd scenes .  director kathryn bigelow knows her stuff and does not hesitate to use it .  but as a whole , this is an unsatisfying movie .  the problem is that the writers , james cameron and jay cocks , were too ambitious , aiming for a film with social relevance , thrills , and drama .  not that ambitious film-making should be discouraged ; just that when it fails to achieve its goals , it fails badly and obviously .  the film just ends up preachy , unexciting and uninvolving . 
neg@ it's almost amusing to watch 21-year old christina ricci get drastically overshadowed in sally potter's follow-up to 1997's the tango lesson , the man who cried .  the gen-y actress , with her cold stare and big , black eyes , has appeared in an impressive range of films ; but she doesn't even come close to being the bold heroine the film , set against the historical backdrop of world war 2 , requires her to be .  ricci , whose character is shockingly silent and blank , showing only the occasional smile or hint of concern , shares most of her scenes with the astounding cate blanchett : quite an amusing sight to behold .  blanchett's lola , a paris dwelling dancer who befriends the aspiring singer suzie , is bold , interesting and layered ? everything our heroine lacks .  co-star of the upcoming lord of the rings trilogy , blanchett has a good seven inches on ricci , sports twice the makeup and dons a flashy wardrobe .  the actress inhabits the role ? as she always so remarkably does ? with a fervor and life that makes you want her to hold the screen as the film's lead rather than her dull companion .  important historical events involving hitler and his nazis scatter themselves across the film ; these landmarks serve as the film's little conflict .  obviously , the tables are turned in the life of suzie by these events , whose jewish origin is unknown among her parisian colleagues .  the man who cried has many aspirations , none of which come full circle by the film's close .  there are forced messages here and there : " go forward ; always go forward , " lola preaches to suzie ; there's romance between suzie and a fellow target of hitler's nazis , the gypsy cesar ( johnny depp , who , like ricci , barely gets to speak ) ; lola struggles with her character that desires above all things wealth and men who have it ; and at the core of all these devices lies suzie's desire to travel to america , where her father journeyed after leaving her and her mother years ago .  the film's main problem is that potter isn't skilled enough to tell the epic-sized story of suzie .  the time period's instability , the conflicting social classes , the prejudice against suzie from all those around her in her new life : serving as both writer and director , potter throws in some of each , but hardly an inch of depth is to be found in any .  by the time the sigh-inducing climax hits , the believability and complete absence of focus leave one ready to leave the theater .  the film's falling action is weirdly unsatisfying and unlikely ; are we really meant to believe any of this could happen ?  contrastingly , in its moving final scene , the man who cried strikes a note that is made effective in its ties to the emotional beginning of the film .  although it's apparent that potter can't grasp what she reaches , i'm puzzled as to why she reaches for so much in the first place .  ricci's suzie is meant to be the film's core : from the extended flashback at the film's beginning to the quickly drawn ending , everything seen in the film , in some way , relates to her .  so why then does potter spend so much time on subplots involving other individuals ?  the character of suzie is too present for the man who cried to work as an ensemble , but not present enough for the film to be ricci's .  the almost constant lack of flow and one-note tone with which potter depicts the man who cried are somewhat improved upon by sacha vierny's beautiful cinematography that renders the film's various locations wonderfully .  also worthy of note are lindy hemming's costumes that help to depict the area quite nicely .  and then there's the music .  from minute one to minute ninety-seven , there's hardly a moment when the wavering , skilled voice of an opera singer or the rhythms of the gypsy music don't undercut the action ; the notes stricken both overwhelm ( particularly john turturro , portraying fictional opera singer dante dominio , whose money and reputation catch lola's interest ) and accompany ( oftentimes , the perfect chords are captured to undermine the state of the film's characters and reinforce that state ) .  potter obviously cares much about each and every musical note ; unfortunately , the same effort isn't given towards ( almost ) everything else . 
pos@ do you want to know the truth about cats and dogs ?  do you ?  well , as this movie shows us , they make good companions but pale in comparison to the joy and fulfillment romantic relationships can bring .  unfortunately , there's a giant roadblock set up in our culture that only certain people can get through while the rest of us mill around outside , feeling sorry for ourselves .  a checkpoint beautiful kind of thing , and janeane garafolo's character abby relates to it well .  like a certain oversized teenage movie critic , she is intelligent and has a great sense of humor but strikes out with the opposite sex because she sees herself as physically unattractive , and the men seem to be backing her up on that .  meanwhile , her gorgeous neighbor nora ( uma thurman . . .  uma being the only woman's name worse than nora ) attracts men like flies .  as abby tells her , " you burp and they think it's cute .  you barf and they line up to hold your hair back . "  but nora's down on herself for being too shallow and superficial .  we all have our prwhen a man calls in to veterinarian abby's talk radio show wanting to know how to get the roller skates off his basset hound .   ( oh come on , any idiot knows how to handle that problem ! )  he likes her personality and professional demeanor and asks to meet her in person .  abby , though , knows her body doesn't match her personality and that she probably won't have a chance with him once he sees her .  so she gives him nora's body description and stands him up .  nora happens to be in the studio the next day when the dog man comes by and abby asks her for a big favor .  she goes along with the masquerade and the three of them head out for a night of fun , abby assuming the role of a goat cheese farmer named donna .  the dog man finds out even though this girl is beautiful , she's not quite as intellectual or confident about herself in person , but he doesn't suspect anything , realizing he's not living in a " three's company " episode .  the charade continues , with abby furthering the relationship over the phone ( including a decidedly unnecessary phone sex/masturbation sequence ) and nora furthering it in person , while eventually finding herself attracted to the dog man .  like sleepless in seattle , this comedy/romance is predictable all the way through , but we care enough about the characters that we root them on and will the romance to blossom .  the truth about cats and dogs isn't quite as entertaining as i was expecting it to be , but it handles well a theme i could identify with .  the thing is , i find janeane garafolo rather attractive .  she's no uma but i'm sure in real life she'd have no problems attracting men .  i , on the other hand , couldn't attract a man to save my life . . .  and am rather proud of that fact . 
neg@ there isn't much good about this movie .  not much i can say about the acting , directing , or writing that would make you consider seeing this movie .  so i'll get my one good comment out of the way , at least joel schuemacher ( batman & robin ) didn't direct it or it would be titled " technicolor city " .  in fact there is nothing colorful about this movie , its dark and depressingly gloomy right down to the bitter end .  the plot has a tendency to be interesting , but all that passes while your laughing at the ridiculous things thrown into what could have been a fascinating movie .  the plot is impossible to explain due to how senseless it gets , so i will just touch on the bare minimum .  john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) awakes in the bathtub of a cheap hotel , only to find out he has forgotten everything .  john must find out who he is before the " strangers " ( a . k . a .  mind erasing aliens ) find him and use him for their own evil conspiracy .  during the film some interesting points are raised about human individuality , and the existence of inherently evil people .  any of these points however are completely " erased " from your mind as you watch the actors stumble through the dreadful script .  as i mentioned earlier , nothing but the atmosphere is right in this film .  the acting is bland , and since there is virtually no character development no one seems to care .  the special effects are low budget and some even hilariously fake , a sign of a true " b-movie " .  the direction is poor and there is little continuity , not that you would expect it in a movie switching realities constantly .  lastly the script is weak and has no concept of reality , and doesn't deserve to have the word " science " in science-fiction .  if i haven't got my point across , i'll say it more plainly : this is a bad movie .  lets hope the next movie by alex " i wish i was tim burton " proyas is at least tolerable . 
pos@ if he doesn=92t watch out , mel gibson is in danger of being known as someone other than mad max .  of course there are still a few big guns in this film , but there=92s some accomplished acting too .  although gibson continues to shed his rough and gritty anti-hero skin as his career progresses , here he explores a new genre : the businessman as action hero .  in ron howard=92s latest film , gibson plays tom mullen , a gazillionaire airline owner whose son is snatched from the junior science fair by kidnappers .  mullen at first agrees to pay the ransom , but when things fall apart he rethinks the situation .  a veteran of numerous hard-nosed business negotiations , the tycoon realizes that in order to get his son back alive , he has to play his hand differently .  the casting is what puts this film over the top .  the trio of gibson , the kidnappers' mastermind ( gary sinise ) and fbi team leader ( delroy lindo ) play off of each other wonderfully .  sinise is perfect as the driven scheming sleezebag is right on the mark .  his speech to mullen over a walkie talkie about h . g . wells=92 morlocks and eloi reveal his vision of=  society . mullen and the other glitteratti frolic up on high while sinise and the other lowlifes dwell below , feeding off the unsuspecting .  gibson=92s character is an all-american hero with a few flaws .  his cowboy=  tactics tend to work , but they are also what got him into this situation to begin with .  in a round about way , if he weren=92t known as a man who i= s willing to buy his way out of trouble , his son wouldn=92t have been kidnapped .  as sinise says " you=92re a payer .  you did it once and now you=92re going to do it again . "  one of the nicest elements of this film is that most of the characters actually have personalities .  lindo calls home to talk to his kids , obviously shaken at working this case .  even the kidnappers are real people , arguing about the ultimate fate of sean mullen and feeding him candy bars .  gibson=92s break-down on the balcony of their penthouse apartment is especially effective .  it=92s one of the best filmed representations of a man=92s world falling apart that i=92ve seen .  it=92s not all perfect .  the shoot 'em upending , while emotionally satisfying seems tacked on to be just that rather than to provide a powerful resolution .  as well crafted as the scene is , we=92ve seen it before .  mullen=92s wife ( rene russo ) has several good moments , but occasionally just seems to be there .  while adequate , brawley nolte ( sean ) doesn=92t provide much to the film other than occupying space to build the story around .  but you=92ll ignore these problems as each minute of the movie builds on the previous one .  forget about the large coke , you won=92t want to leave for that five minute break an hour later . 
neg@ well i guess it's that time of the year again .  the one time of the year where movie craftors are exonerated from the need to even * try * writing a script that has more dialogue than explosions .  it's also the best time for the handful of existing bigtime hollywood mr action heroes to dust off their miniscule vocabularies , pull on their black vests and charge onto our screens tersely expirating what they hope will become memorable catchphrases .  in america they call this time " summer " and it happens once every year .  and maybe it's the exposure to all that nasty sun that does it , but in the process normally weak , insipid lines like " consider this a divorce , " " hasta la vista , baby , " and " you're the disease .  i'm the cure " actually do end up being repeated more often then the phrases from my book of biblical proverbs .  this is not entirely a bad thing , of course .  what am i talking about ?  i'm talking about the summer " blockbusters , " the " action thrillers , " the " this-obviously-cost-a-lot-so-you-know- everyone's-going-to-go " explosions , gas threats , flying saucers , and special effects .  in the rash of " my , what big guns you have , but wait !  mine are bigger " movies , there are also the usual boy-meets-fish-and-saves-environment movies ( or whale , whatever ) , and * this * year , the odd crop of " save-the-world-from-aliens-or-environment- threats " offerings .  i'm talking about the three batmans , the speeds , the terminators , etc . this year i'm talking about twister , independence day , the arrival , the rock , mission : impossible , and of course , eraser .  here in singapore , as our local movie critics like to whine , we seem to get the pick of the crop of " my explosion is more real-looking than yours " movies , but nothing else .  mission : impossible opened in our theatres almost as soon as it did in the us .  the same goes for eraser , which is unfortunate for arnold schwarzenegger because coming so soon after what time magazine recently called " mission : unavoidable " ( on account of its worldwide mega-advertising blitz ) , eraser seems like a cheaper , less thoughtful imitation .  that's saying a lot , because mi the movie was already a cheap , thoughtless imitation of its tv originator of the '60s/'70s .  in eraser , arnie is a us federal marshall who relocates trial witnesses whose testimonies place their lives in danger .  he does this by destroying all evidence of their present existence and re-situating them with new identities .  his new case is lee cullen , played by vanessa williams who , unlike all the other scumbags he's ever relocated , is " an actual , real life honest person . "  because she's so good , and has such nice legs , arnold spends the whole movie trying to protect her , and only uses the opening movie sequence to save robert pastorelli from * his * killers .  lee obtains evidence that the high-technology weapons company she works for is secretly selling sophisticated , black-market arms to people with foreign accents and stringy hair .  of course , as the formula goes , her revealing this information will destroy the system as we know it because heck , there are people in high places who will go down with this , because yes , this is the biggest conspiracy in the history of the world ( that is , america ) since watergate .  in protecting lee , arnold is framed by the mentor-turned-evil robert deguerin , nicely played by james caan , and ends up having to prove that he isn't the one killing the programme's witnesses in addition to making sure lee isn't accidentally torpedo-ed to death by the new , green guns his enemies all have .  it's around this time that people in the theatre with me starting humming the mission : impossible theme , because arnie's mission includes breaking into a high-security building to run a disk .  i guess i should tell you more about the particular gun everyone in this movie is so antsy about .  it's an electro-magnetic pulse gun thing which fires aluminium missiles , and which can see through walls .  it has some sort of x-ray vision , so its user can target the victim's heart even from great distances .  despite this , which i figure is a pretty cool feature in a gun ( though i'm certainly no expert ) , however , arnold , whose own heart is targeted a number of times , * never * goes flying 10 feet backwards with a two-foot missile through his chest like all the others who get shot by this gun .  instead he outruns and outsmarts his trackers each time , giving eery and ironic resonance to that terminator line that practically made him famous : " i'll be back . "  like everyone else in the theater , i left the movie feeling that the trailers had duped me , because they made me want to watch this movie voluntarily .  although there is a * lot * of violence in this movie , not to mention mutilation and some bloody tussles with alligators , i recommend this movie to most over-18s who need some therapeutic mindless action to get over the weirdness of fargo or the hangover effect of leaving las vegas .  review's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
pos@ trees lounge is the directoral debut from one of my favorite actors , steve buscemi .  he gave memorable performences in in the soup , fargo , and reservoir dogs .  now he tries his hand at writing , directing and acting all in the same flick .  the movie starts out awfully slow with tommy ( buscemi ) hanging around a local bar the " trees lounge " and him pestering his brother .  it's obvious he a loser .  but as he says " it's better i'm a loser and know i am , then being a loser and not thinking i am . "  well put .  the story starts to take off when his uncle dies , and tommy , not having a job , decides to drive an ice cream truck .  well , the movie starts to pick up with him finding a love interest in a 17 year old girl named debbie ( chloe sevigny ) and . . .  i liked this movie alot even though it did not reach my expectation .  after you've seen him in fargo and reservoir dogs , you know he is capable of a better performence .  i think his brother , michael , did an excellent job for his debut performence .  mr . buscemi is off to a good career as a director ! 
neg@ can you say " dated " ?  you can if you've seen rosemary's baby which , like the exorcist , was a thrilling horror film in its time but seems boring and laughable in the decades that have passed since its original release .   " mystery science theater 3000 " has skewered the bad films of the past , but let me tell you , it could do a number on the " good " ones too .  rosemary's baby stars mia farrow ( from the time she was actually good-looking ) as an innocent housewife and her not-so-innocent husband ( john cassavettes ) , an actor who takes an easy , albeit evil , road to success .  it all seems so harmless in the beginning .  mia and john move into an apartment where several past murders have been committed .   ( there's also a skull in the living room , but it's only for decoration . )  their elderly neighbors pop in for a housewarming .  all's well for about the first hour of this slow-moving film , until mia eats some of the neighbors' chocolate mousse and passes out .  when she comes to , she finds herself in a darkened room with a bunch of people yelling and dancing like savages and a big , evil man raping her -- a foreshadowing of her future life with woody allen .  it seems like a dream and , when she finds herself pregnant , she almost forgets about it .  and everyone's helping with the pregnancy .  the neighbors have some wonderful vitamin potions for her to drink , a good-luck charm for her to wear around her neck , and the name of an obstetrician who's been in the business 66 . 6  years .  meanwhile , mia begins having chronic stomach pains and losing a lot of weight .  before too long she looks just like the lead singer of the cranberries .  that's when you know your health's failing .  the only person in the movie who's the least bit suspicious of all this is an old friend ( maurice evans ) who calls mia up to give her the bad news -- and immediately falls into a coma .  by about the two-hour mark i felt the same way .  rosemary's baby is way too long , and leads up to a payoff that's about as boring and laughable as the rest of the movie .  i guess someone put a spell on this movie . 
pos@ apollo 13 is simply one of the most dramatic film this summer ( apart from swashbuckling braveheart ) .  director ( and former actor ) ron howard ( splash , backdraft , far & away ) , most noted for his dramatic film making , displays again his brilliance in creating drama and suspense in apollo 13 .  being the second largest box office hit in the us this summer ( with more than us$150 million in the states alone ) , this film is his most successful effort yet .  perhaps one of the most appealing feature of this film is the pool of talented actors such as tom hanks ( gump himself ) , kevin bacon ( footloose , tremors , a few good men etc . ) , gary sinise ( forrest gump ) , bill paxton ( aliens , true lies , boxing helena ) and ed harris ( the abyss , just cause ) . .  all of whom gave good performances in their respective roles .  apollo 13 was the second worst accident ever to occur in the history of us spaceflight ( the worst being the challenger accident ) .  jim lovell ( hanks ) , the mission commander , together with his crew , fred haise ( paxton ) and last minute replacement tom swigert ( bacon ) are put to the ultimate test when part of their command module explodes on the third day of the mission , more than three quarters way to the moon .  suspense and drama ensue as the three men are left in space with their spaceship out of control and the problem of surviving the journey home . . .  if they ever reach it .  ed harris and gary sinise who play , respectively , the man in charge of the entire mission control and the astronaut who was supposed to fly but was diagnosed with measles , both delve into their roles superbly .  audiences are shown the chaotic and worrisome state of the entire ground control crew , as they frantically attempt to come up with ideas on how to save the astronauts from hurtling into space .  also , there are quite a number of real news footages which were broadcast during the accident which took the entire us nation into 5 days of drama in 1970 .  the special effects by digital domain are up to standard and the music suits the suspense and drama very well , thanks to film-music maestro james horner .  watch out for the launching sequence , it is simply one of the most breathtaking scenes of the film .  a bad point though : apollo 13 features much technical jargon and many physics concepts in its script .  those who consider themselves `scientifically illiterate' might have a slight problem understanding what caused this and what caused that during the course of the show .  this is however , just a minor point , just forget all those technical bullshit and immerse yourselves into the drama and suspense throughout the film .  you should enjoy it . 
neg@ maybe this mission should have been scrubbed  mission to mars  a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman  there's a world of difference between artists and technicians .  the artist has a vision to create something new .  he may not do it well , it might be sloppy , but it's something you've never seen before .  a good technician can make it look good , but without direction from his own inner artist or someone else , it's going to be just a xerox .  obviously successful films need both skills .  brian de palma is a masterful technician .  he's spent his career copying others , most notably hitchcock .  he usually knows exactly what to do to make a scene work , but only because he has learned it by rote .  aside from rare flashes of originality , his films are often soul-dead .  in de palma's latest , he turns his attention to stanley kubrick .  to tell the truth , i enjoyed portions of this movie , but i liked it a lot better over 30 years ago when it was called " 2001 " .  i enjoyed it even more when it was titled " close encounters " .  nasa has set its sights for mars .  when the first crew meets with disaster , a rescue mission is sent to the red planet .  they don't do so well either , but eventually meet up the lone surviving astronaut-gone-rasta and solve the mysteries of the universe .  and it's all so boring .  there are so many scenes that just don't work , it's difficult to begin .  when the first crew is a few feet away from a raging massive upside-down martian tornado ( which looks remarkably like a sandworm from " dune " ) destroying everything in its path , they just hang out watching .  error .  the most interesting character ( and that's not saying much ) is killed off .  error .  the alien is laughable .  error .  the rest of the characters are the dullest people imaginable .  error .  there's some nice eyecandy .  the face on mars , which turns out to be a giant metal thai buddha head , looks cool .  a three-dimensional holographic planetarium is more fun to watch than anything at disney world .  maneuvering in space suits outside the ship seems realistic .  but there's so much more that feels as if we've been there before .  from " 2001 " , there's the rotating space station , the blinding white room .  >from " close encounters " , they solve a sound puzzle and play it to the aliens .  the list goes on .  the actors are mostly mobile wooden statues .  even gary sinise and tim robbins can't muster enough emotion to convince us they are breathing .  no one seems to care about anything that happens .  you won't either .  the absolutely worst sin is the blatant product placement as dr . pepper , with a 20 foot tall logo , saves the day .  they should save the commercials for those insipid bits before the film . 
pos@ my fellow americans is a movie that at first glance looks to have little substance ( or a movie that we've all seen a million times ) , two lifetime rivals thrown together and then the fun begins .  this is exactly what happened in this movie , but fortunately , they managed to do it in an interesting and funny way .  the movie starts with a quick ( and i do mean quick ) glance of two presidents russell kramer ( jack lemmon ) and matt douglas ( james garner ) .  william haney ( dan aykroyd ) and ted matthews ( john heard ) are the new president and vice president .  there is a scandal that arises involving a kickback from a contractor and haney is positive that he buried that years ago .  he finds a scapegoat in kramer and now everyone wants kramer and douglas dead .  this movie was exceptional for many reasons .  one being that they found people ( lemmon and garner ) that have good chemisty together .  they worked very well as a unit and they mirrored each other perfectly , one being a ladies man and one being the old man ( i'll let you fiqure which is which ) .  also , they found people that know their parts as govenment officials well .  it seemed to me that garner played almost exactly the same role that he played in the distinquished gentleman ( except then he was a congressman ) .  experience counts for a lot ! ! 
neg@ note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers .  be forewarned .  i was incredulous when i first heard that mgm was planning a sequel to their 1995 science-fiction flick species .  squandering an intriguing premise , the original film turned out to be a dreadful mess , widely disliked by both audiences and critics alike -- and nonetheless still somehow succeeded in becoming a financial success , raking in over $60 million domestic during the competitive summer season despite a distinct lack of star power in its cast ( ben kingsley's a splendid actor , but a marquee name he ain't ) .  miraculously dodging the bullet with the first film , i doubted that they'd dare tempt fate and go for another round .  so here comes species ii , with a new creative team ( director peter medak and screenwriter chris brancato step in for roger donaldson and dennis feldman , respectively ) that fails to improve the series one iota -- like its predecessor , species ii fails to capitalize on a potentially promising kernel and instead runs the gamut from ridiculously silly to unmitigatedly stupid .  the film follows the exploits of a young man , patrick ross ( justin lazard ) , whose sole focus is on cruising along the streets in order to pick up women , loitering in strip clubs , and generally trying to bed as many different ladies as he possibly can .  in other words , patrick is like a lot of guys ; these activities could describe the everyday routines of a huge percentage of men his age , but there's a catch -- he's an astronaut who recently returned from a seemingly successful mission to mars , and who's now infected with alien dna .  patrick's overriding compulsion : to mate and sire countless numbers of gooey little alien offspring .  and when he becomes aware of eve ( natasha henstridge ) , a half-human , half-alien clone of the monster from the first film being studied in a government lab , patrick's primary focus turns to her -- " if these two were to mate , the resulting pure strain of offspring would be unstoppable " warns dr . laura baker ( marg helgenberger , gamely reprising her role ) with admirable conviction .  species ii opens with the mars mission , and the space scenes are remarkably unconvincing and hokey-looking , even splicing back to dated , grainy footage of actual spacecraft activities -- they really skimped on production values this time around .  however , this all looks positively inspired when compared to the first appearance of the evil alien goo which ultimately infests patrick ; watching as it slinks around the command module of the spaceship , any question as to whether or not this is a cheesy b-movie is quickly answered .  mr . brancato's original screenplay is filled with outrageous lines which often leaves the audience in stitches .  like the first film ( and perhaps in homage to it ) , there's a real penchant for dialogue which underlines the obvious .  last time around featured the hootworthy line uttered by forest whitaker's psychic empath character upon entering a bloodsoaked room -- " something bad happened here . "  this time , laura gets to stand over a fresh , shredded corpse with its entails ripped out and mutter " this is awful . "  and she's not even empathic !  and when a psychotically horny patrick accosts a supermarket shopper and drags her kicking and screaming behind the building in a woefully-paced suspense sequence , eve , who's telepathically linked to her alien/human-hybrid counterpart ( whatever ) , helpfully tells our alien-hunting protagonists , " he's going to rape her . "  while species ii is often unintentionally hilarious , at least it occasionally demonstrates a sense of humour of its own .  there's an amusing , tongue-in-cheek bit of product placement ( which doesn't really make much sense , but i appreciated the sentiment ) , as well as some supermarket-related hijinx ( " he's in aisle 1 ! "  informs eve ) .  if the film maintained this sort of light-hearted tone , it would have been much more charming and enjoyable to watch , but , to its detriment , it instead takes its silly plot far too seriously and barrels along to a bloody , effects-ladened anticlimactic conclusion .  much of the film fails to make a whole lot of sense , and there are such gaping plot holes that it's terribly difficult to contain any suspension of disbelief .  the implausibilities are endless : what about the toxic bomb in eve's brain ?  why are the guards armed with guns when they already know firearms are ineffectual ?  my favourite was the slow-motion sequence in the film where eve , sporting superhuman strength , is shown tossing aside guards who are attempting to contain her with what look like body blocks .  this is the sort of movie which leaves you holding your head in amazed disbelief , incredulous that it's being foisted upon the public .  returning headlines michael madsen ( who reprises tough guy press lennox ) and ms . helgenberger do what they can with this goofy screenplay , but there's realistically only so much one can do with this script as a basis .  mykelti williamson ( portraying astronaut dennis gamble ) churns out an all-too-familiar spin on a generic brash-mouthed character , and fine character actors george dzundza ( playing colonel burgess and looking ridiculous in the process ) and james cromwell ( patrick's neglectful father , senator ross ) are utterly wasted in the film .  mr . lazard gives his character an appropriately shifty-eyed look , while returning vixen ms . henstridge is actually given the opportunity to act in one scene ( and acquits herself nicely ) , but is mostly relegated to reprising her familiar role of parading about in skimpy clothing ( or none at all ) .  ms . henstridge recently commented on how some female audiences have expressed appreciation for her character in the first entry of the species series , claiming that " she's so empowered . "  a lethal half-alien in heat who dispatches of her sexual partners in grotesque fashion -- now * that's * what i call empowerment . 
pos@ bruce willis is a type-casted actor .  in die hard , he played john mcclaine , a rough and tough chicago cop who gets caught in the wrong place at the wrong time .  again , in pulp fiction , as butch coolidge , an over-the-hill boxer , he steps on the wrong guys toes .  in luc besson's the fifth element , willis plays korben dallas , a new york cabby who takes in the wrong passenger at the worst possible time .  a stylish science fiction epic , the fifth element's complex plot begins right away , in the deserts of egypt ( think stargate ) in 1914 .  an enormous spacecraft lands above a pyramid where the " 5 elements " are stored and takes them away , vowing to return them when the evil comes back .  cut to present day , which is our future .  the year is 2023 , and new york is the city .  the only basic differences between besson's futuristic depiction and the real life new york is that the smog is thicker , the buildings are higher , and the traffic floats !  anyway , the " evil " comes back as a ball of fire to wreak havoc on the fair citizens of the earth , so back come the tortoise-like aliens to return the " 5 elements " to earth , in order to defend themselves against the " evil . "  in the process , however , the ship is intercepted by 2 fighter pods and is destroyed before landing .  when officials arrive at the site , all that remains is a hand .  what can you do with a hand ?  hey , its the 21st century here-dna reconstruction !  this hand turns out to belong to a beautiful , but mysterious woman named leeloo ( milla jovovich , dazed and confused ) .  she escapes and , attempting to escape the police by swan diving off of an enormous skyscraper and crashing through the roof of korben's floating cab .  it's love at first site , as korben and leeloo elude the lazy-as-always cops .  when leeloo begins mumbling about a cornelius ( ian holm , night falls on manhattan ) , korben searches the " yellow pages " and delivers her to the door of the good reverend , the only man who knows of her background and duties .  now , korben , leeloo , and cornelius must journey to a foreign planet to board a cruise ship ( special effects were spectacular here ) to find the remaining four elements .  it is here , where they discover that they have been followed by the evil jean-baptiste emmanuel zorg ( gary oldman , murder in the first ) .  he , too , wants possession of the elements , as do a group of pig-like warriors ( think the gamorreans in return of the jedi ) .  in a spectacular ending , with time running out , leeloo is faced with a problem-why should she save a people who live to destroy each other ?  the question is a good one , and one that could be pondered .  but enough of that .  when korben points out his love for her , leeloo is inclined to become the " 5th element " and save the world from total destruction .  the fifth element features good performances by willis and holm , an excellent portrayal of a comedic villain ( who reminded me a lot of jack nicholson's the joker in batman ) by one of the masters of villainy , oldman , and a heartfelt offering by relative newcomer jovovich .  the supporting cast , which includes brion james ( tango & cash ) , tim " tiny " lester ( no holds barred ) , luke perry ( buffy the vampire slayer ) , and chris tucker ( friday ) , added a comedic effect to the film .  although besson's the fifth element can be criticized for the outlandish use of cliches , it is a solid motion picture with a definite point .  some other directors ( like anaconda's luis llosa ) should take a lesson from this guy-using ideas from epic motion pictures the right way .  ideas from star wars and stargate were utilized for the improvement of this film .  sci-fi fan or not , any movie-lover should see this wonderfully stylish motion picture .   , 
neg@ running time approximately 1hr 40mins  reviewed by jack choo  rating :  the movie starts with a rather se7en-ish opening sequence , rather cool and sets the mood for things to come .  the story propels the audience into a neo-reality ; somewhat very close to conscious reality but laced with weird tinges of blue and red .  existenz is actually the name of a new virtual-reality game .  supposedly , vr games are highly popular as is considered a legal-drug in this neo-reality .   * * * * ( leigh ) is the ultimate game creator and introduces her ultimate game-experience in the form of existenz .  players are required to have bio-ports embedded in their spine , which plugs to a game-pod in order to enjoy the immersive experience .  during a secretive beta-testing-cum-teaser meeting for this new game , an assassination attempt on * * * life occurs and she runs off with fellow bodyguard * * * ( law ) .   * * * is more of a realists than anything else , afraid that he'll lose reality if he begin to play these games but * * * requires his help to immerse together with her into existenz to check if the program is still functioning properly after the assassination attempt .  as they soon discover , they are transported between realities within existenz uncovering more than they initially expected .  existenz has all the cronenberg-gore that is expected of him .  even so , this film is no-where near his cult classics such as videodrome or scanners .  not even half as suspenseful as the commercially successful the fly .  existenz can probably be looked upon as his 90's version of videodrome , even so , it is a poor follow-up .  while in most of his famed films , his penchant for gore always hit the right note with theme of the film and plot .  in existenz , the gory sequences are no more attached to spirit of the film and seem to be an act of over-indulgence than anything else .  jennifer jason leigh and jude law , both commendable actors , looked aloof and miss-directed throughout the entire film .  the scripting and acting barely pulls the film out of the b-grade category .  it was obvious that cronenberg worked on a really tight-budget and it seems that he handled that pretty well in the production design and values created for this film ( the opening sequence , though , probably formed a considerable portion of the budget ! )  which is actually quite good .  existenz is too predictable and cliched in these times .  10 years ago , it would have been another classic for cronenberg .  cronenberg fans however , ( those people who enjoy seeing friends getting queasy over mutilation on film ) should not give this film a miss as some form of appreciation can still be offered by you . 
pos@ contact is a nobly intentioned but ultimately unsatisfying adaptation of carl sagan's only novel .  it details the circumstances surrounding the first clear sign of intelligent life in outer space and their effects on the life of a young and idealistic radio astronomer named ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) .  we first meet ellie at a giant radio telescope in puerto rico , where she is part of the seti ( search for extraterrestrial intelligence ) project .  her research is quickly killed , however , by her highly political david drumlin ( tom skerrit ) , who disdains " pure research " in favor of science with " commercial applications .  she goes in search of private funding and is turned down at every step until she pitches her project to a corporation run by the mysterious s . r .  hadden ( john hurt ) .  then , with that money just about to finally dry up , ellie is sitting out in the desert near the very large array in new mexico when she hears over her headphones a very powerful pulsing radio signal .  in the movie's most exciting and believable sequence , ellie and her coworkers determine that the signal has to be coming from the star vega .  at first the signal appears to be just sequences of prime numbers , then it turns out to be a tv signal of the berlin olympics bounced back to earth from 50 years before .  further decoding , with hadden's help , reveals another layer to message , containing detailed plans for a massive and complex machine .  it appears that the machine is a transport that will allow one person to travel to the aliens' home world .  of course , the big question becomes " who gets to ride it ? "   ( right after " who's gonna pay for this thing ? " ) .  to boil it down , ellie gets denied the seat in the machine because she bluntly acknowledges her atheism , while drumlin gets to go because he rather insincerely professes his deep religious faith .  drumlin is killed and the machine destroyed when religious fanatics bomb the launch platform ( apparently to keep " godless science " from talking to god , or something like that ) .  then hadden reappears with startling news .  he has secretly constructed a second machine off the coast of japan and has reserved the ride for ellie , in whom he has taken a rather paternal interest .  ellie boards the machine and is transported through some kind of wormhole to a dream-like place that looks a lot like waikiki beach before they built the hotels , where she meets the aliens who take the form of her late father ( david morse ) .  when she returns home , no one believes her .  she was not even gone for one second , they say , even though she remembers being gone for 18 hours .  her story is officially discredited , although believed by a large segment of the public ( who don't even have to know that her computer records of the trip contain nothing but static .   .   .  eighteen hours worth of static ) .  there is a lot to like about contact so i will highlight those points first .  ellie arroway is a well-rounded character portrayed by one of the best actresses currently working .  neither the character nor the performance has the same depth as clarice starling in silence of the lambs , but that's a tough standard to meet .  ellie is interesting in that she is woman defined by a strange array of father figures .  her real father is an idealized movie dad who does nothing in the film but love his daughter unconditionally .  drumlin comes across as a distant stepfather to whom ellie is like an irritating teenager who wants to use his toys to get into trouble .  hadden obviously has affection for ellie , but in the end he seems to see her as his creation , nothing more than his favorite piece on the chess board .  even palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) , ellie's love interest , takes a paternalistic interest in ellie , seeing her as a misguided person who needs protection from her own impulses .  the film is technically impressive , especially in the scenes where the message is first received and during the destruction of the first machine .  the part of the film dealing with the message has the best presentation of real science in a film since the andromeda strain .  the film falls apart when dealing with its central theme , the dichotomy between science and religion .  this is a very real debate but contact boils it down to a simplistic level that never really touches on the actual issues involved .  the film presents science pretty well ( until the end ) so the real problem stems from it presentation of religious faith .  religious people are presented as shallow caricatures .  rob lowe plays a ralph reed clone named richard rank ( very subtle , guys ) , the voice of the religious right .  another religious figure is the fanatic who blows up the first machine ( jake busey ) .  the only really fleshed-out religious person , palmer joss , is supposed to be a minister of some sort , but his actual faith is left pretty vague .  i can't even say for certain that he was supposed to be a christian .  all we know is that he dropped out of the seminary and obviously has no qualms about pre-marital sex .  the film drops the science ball at the very end , when ellie appears to assert that there are some things even scientists must take on faith .  in a day and age when the theory of evolution is denounced by the religion right as an atheist " religious " doctrine , this is exactly the wrong message to send .  in a movie dealing with issues of science and faith , the last thing you want your scientist character to do is abandon the principle of scientific skepticism .  what ellie should have said was , " you shouldn't believe me .  not without evidence , and i don't have the evidence .  i know what happened but you shouldn't take my word alone . "  that is the voice of science speaking .  the character of david drumlin is another problem with this film .  his attitudes toward pure research project seem out of place for a person in his position .  also , his profession of " faith " before the selection committee is so nakedly and transparently insincere that only a pack of idiots should have fallen for it .  the last big problem is with the use of real personalities in various roles .  the media figures , such as bernard shaw and jay leno aren't so bad , in as much as their participation was voluntary .  the use of bill clinton , however , should give anyone pause .  first of all , lifting the image of a sitting head of state and inserting him into a fictional story line , thus using his words outside of the context in which they were spoken , is just plain creepy .  also , using the real president places this film between 1993 and 2001 , forever dating it .  people watching this film in the future will say , " hey , this never took place during clinton's term . "  this bit of unreality will jar people out of their suspension of disbelief .  also , the level of technology portrayed in the film is too advanced to take place before the first decade of the next century .  better to have had a fictitious president played by an actor or no president at all .  the film does raise an interesting question , although it never develops it in a satisfying way .  if we were picking an emissary to send to an alien culture , would an atheist be automatically disqualified just because ninety percent of the population of the world professes a belief in god , or at least some form of supernatural creator ?  personally , i would hope not , since religion is basically an opinion , a form of ideology .  i would not want any form of ideological test for such an import task . 
neg@  " it was not scary . "  these are the first words that came to mind after it was over .  when a movie is called _vampires_ , " not scary " aren't words that should be associated with it .  but that wasn't my only gripe .  john carpenter is a name associated with cutting-edge cinema , as in the intense scares of _halloween_ , _the thing_ and _the prince of darkness_ , or the offbeat action of _they live_ and _escape from new york_ .  unfortunately , the only thing that is cutting edge about _vampires_ is the level of boredom the movie is able to reach .  with an anemic plot and not-quite-kosher special effects , _john carpenter's vampires_ has barely enough substance to slake the thirst of even the least discerning genre fan .  the film is at first concerned with a group of roaming vampire slayers , led by james woods , of all people .  like some sort of holy a-team ( they even have their own souped-up van ) , the bunch invade and wipe out a nest of vampires in a new mexico shack .  their method is amusingly innovative : the blood-suckers are reeled out with harpoons so they can flare up in the sun like matchsticks .  to commemorate their victory , the loutish band decorates a motel room with hookers and parties the night away .  their celebration is short-lived , however , as a master vampire named valek ambushes and single-handedly destroys most of the team .  woods' jack crow and buddy montoya ( daniel baldwin ) escape with their lives , along with a woman named katrina ( sheryl lee ) .  although the woman has been bitten , montoya and crow decide to keep katrina for her psychic link to the master vampire .  the rest of the movie is concerned with the boys' hunt for valek ( thomas ian griffith ) , a freaky marilyn manson-type who's on a mission that dates back 600 years .  along the way they pick up a priest named guiteau ( tim guinee ) , a character who serves pretty much the same purpose as the jittery cpl .  upham in _saving private ryan_ .  some stuff happens in the middle of the movie , but i can't remember most of it , because i often found a twitching hair in the corner of the frame more interesting than what was happening on screen .  _vampires_ finally starts to pick up about 90 minutes into the mix , as crow , guiteau , and montoya assault an abandoned prison-turned vampire nest .  only then does the film begin to even resemble a carpenter flick .  but it's too little too late .  we get the inevitable final confrontation , but it seems tacked on and rather anti-climactic ( come on , we're dealing with _the_ master vampire here ! )  interestingly , last summer's vampire actioner _blade_ was derived from a comic book , and _vampires_ from a novel , yet the latter seems more steeped in campy cheesiness than the former , a more deliberate superhero flick .  woods' jack crow spouts glib off-the-cuff one-liners and strolls away from exploding buildings with that oh-so-cool stride .  and his motive for killing vampires ?  take a wild guess .   ( hint : a ______ killed his _____ when he was just a _____ . )  at least _blade_ had decent action and slick stylishness .  _vampires_ lacks even cheap thrills to mask its gossamer-thin plot .  to make up for this , the movie resorts to other " shocks , " such as its generally condescending attitude towards women ( crow slaps them around for the fun of it ) and an overplayed contempt for religion ( crow teases guiteau incessantly about whether his vow of celibacy has made him prone to " getting woodies . " )  it can be argued that maybe i wanted too much from this movie .  if not scary and gory , i wanted tense , relentless , and exhausting .  _john carpenter's vampires_ is none of these .  i can only recommended it for the hardcore carpenter fan .  for the rest of you looking for a good scare , beware : _vampires_ is a film with no teeth . 
pos@ written by john grisham and robert altman ( as al hayes )  directed by robert altman  some time ago , a young director was given the opportunity to direct the screen version of a popular novel .  the novel was a summer smash , topping best-seller lists across the country and already drawing speculation as to which popular actors of the day might play the leads .  the only problem : the novel wasn't very good .  it was far more pulp than pulitzer .  but the director realized that , no matter how pedestrian the prose , this book really grabbed people - that the author , while not a great writer , was a fantastic storyteller .  so he took on the project , convinced he could make something happen on screen .  the director ?  francis ford coppola .  the book , of course , was mario puzo's the godfather .  the rest , as they say in showbiz , was history .  by bringing up the godfather , i don't mean to suggest that robert altman's the gingerbread man is destined for that level of greatness .  but the parallel does suggest that it is possible to create great cinema from questionable source material .  can you get any more questionable than john grisham ?  depends on whom you ask .  but there's no question that grisham's work grabs people .  like puzo , grisham is a better storyteller than a writer - unlike fellow hack michael crichton , who is a good idea man but who can't tell a well-constructed story from a can of spam .  so something in grisham's unpublished story of a cocky savannah lawyer who gets involved in a deadly family squabble drew the attention of robert altman , who at 73 years old remains one of america's greatest living filmmakers .  the result is a gripping thriller that , while falling short of classic cinema , deserves its place in the altman canon .  >from its opening shot to the closing credits , the gingerbread man is permeated with a sense of dread , with a fear of the natural destructive forces of the universe .  this terrific sense of mood is a classic altman touch .  witness said opening shot : we see an aerial view of coastal georgia with its writhing , undulating landscape while the soundtrack grumbles ominously in our ear .  we roll over the hills into the town of savannah , then zoom in close on a red sports car speeding over a bridge while its driver chatters oblivious on his cell phone .  right away we know that the driver of that car is in for a few surprises .  pay attention , boys and girls - this shot was not conceived by john grisham , but by altman .  this is what a great director can do for questionable source material .  the sports car belongs to rick magruder ( kenneth branagh ) , the aforementioned hotshot attorney who specializes in police brutality cases .  magruder has just won a high profile case and celebrates that night with a catered party at his office .  outside after the party he meets one of the waitresses , mallory doss ( embeth davidzt ) , just as she realizes her car has been stolen .  driven by southern chivalry , a driving rainstorm and his unspoken attraction to the fragile waitress , magruder offers her a ride home .  there he learns more about mallory's life than he bargained for .  her car was stolen by her schizophrenic father dixon ( robert duvall ) , a ted kyzynski-style whacko who has been stalking and terrorizing his own daughter .  magruder , perhaps influenced by mallory's decision to strip off her wet clothes in front of him , is sympathetic to her plight , and offers to help her get her father committed - right after he sleeps with her , of course .  this simple offer of help leads magruder down a dangerous path with a black end .  he succeeds in having dixon incarcerated in a mental hospital , and for a moment all appears well .  but then dixon's crack team of homeless commandos bust him out of the lockup - and suddenly magruder finds himself , mallory and his own children in danger .  the cops won't lift a finger to help a liberal attorney .  his only allies are his faithful assistant lois ( daryl hannah ) and his bumbling private-eye sidekick clyde ( robert downey jr ) .  if this predicament wasn't bad enough , hurricane geraldo is bearing down on savannah and throwing the world into chaos .  altman may provide the atmosphere , but branagh's performance holds the gingerbread man together .  an accomplished actor when he isn't directing himself in vanity productions , branagh does a fine job of making rick a sympathetic hero while casting doubt upon his motives .  is his offer of help to mallory an act of kindness , or of egotism ?  magruder is so sure of his place in the world that he never considers that he has bitten off more than he can chew until he has to swallow it - and by then it's too late .  as the plot unfolds , magruder learns that none of us are as secure as we think we are .  and life is never so bad that it can't get worse .  if you're familiar with altman's work , you'll recognize several of his signature techniques .  characters are not introduced in establishing shots , but rather are allowed to wander in the background of scenes until their importance becomes apparent .  crucial scenes are shot from the outside through windows , making the audience unwitting voyeurs of the action .  dialog overlaps and the actors seem to slip naturally into an improvisational style .  and of course there's my favorite altman technique - the obligatory nude actress shot .  thanks to altman , here are some of the actresses i've had the pleasure of seeing naked : sally kellerman , julianne moore , madeline stowe , even frances mcdormand .  and now i can add embeth davidtz , who looks quite healthy in the altogether .  the naked actress shot has become as ubiquitous to the altman film as the director cameo was to the hitchcock film .  is it old-school sexism , or a clever in-joke ?  you be the judge .  but back to the picture at hand .  in the hands of a mere mortal , the gingerbread man would have been a routine thriller , no better or worse than the countless others we've all endured .  in the hands of a master like altman , it becomes an exercise in existential doom , in its own way far more successful than scorsese's cape fear remake , which tried for the same result .  what may prevent it from enduring with altman's greatest work is a weak third act - in fact , there really is no third act in grisham's story , so it appears that altman had to throw in the hurricane just to jazz things up .  but there are true moments of riveting suspense , and great performances by branagh , davidzt and downey jr - more than enough to see you through .  that polygram so hated this picture that they tried to steal final cut from altman , and then buried the marketing campaign when he won it back , should tell you how utterly clueless of quality most studios are .  they probably wanted it to look more like a time to kill .  and that , my friends , should make you very afraid . 
neg@ silly performances and some huge gaps in logic mar an otherwise interesting tale of an eclectic group of people stranded at " the last stop cafe and motel " due to heavy snowfall .  one of the stranded is a colorado state highway patrolman ( adam beach ) who discovers a murder scene and a bag full of cash from a recent bank robbery .  someone amongst the group of strangers is a bank robber and a murderer , but is it the same person or are there multiple criminals ?  adam beach unfortunately was the wrong choice for the lead in this film .  he doesn't play the role with enough seriousness to be believable or enough goofiness for it to be funny .  his performance is stuck somewhere in the middle , and this film really needed it to be on one side or the other .  rose mcgowan is cold and unpleasant to the eye as always , and jurgen prochnow . . .  what on earth is he doing in this ?  best performance comes from william s . taylor as a cheesy ( yet still somehow cool and confident ) wayne newton drifter type .  the last stop is available on dvd from sterling home entertainment .  as usual with sterling , they've filled out this dvd with extra features .  the disc contains the film in its original aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , a choice of 2 . 0 dolby surround sound or 5 . 1 dolby digital surround sound , a full length audio commentary track with director mark malone , interviews with the cast and crew , the original trailer , and the usual cast and crew biographies .  the film itself might not be the greatest , but sterling's effort of adding decent extra features while keeping the price affordable ( suggested retail of $19 . 95 ) makes this dvd worth the money .  [r] 
pos@ very few people would be unaware of beavis & butt-head ( both created and narrated by mike judge ) .  they are the two animated mtv characters who have the most annoying laughter know to human kind .  you may have seen them on their television program , as they snigger and make lude remarks about women , anything related to sex , and the music film clips that they watch .  in beavis & butt-head do america the pair finally make their big screen debut , to the delight of some , and the deplore of others .  beavis & butt-head ( yes , those are their real names ) , are two very ugly teenagers with extremely warped minds driven by raging hormones .  they live their lives in front of the television .  the worst possible event occurs to the pair when their television is stolen .  this happens as they sleep , and when they awake it takes them a few minutes just to decipher that the television has gone .  beavis even tries to use the remote , though there is no television there .  the two spot a van outside and two sinister looking men carrying a television .  even at this point they have no idea what has happened .  they look around , seeing all the evidence , but are completely oblivious to the fact that these men have just stolen their television .  before the movie i knew that they were stupid , but i didn't realise just how stupid .  this is typical of their behaviour throughout the film .  eventually they realise that their television has been stolen , so they leave their sofa to go search for a television .  luck would have it that they stumble into a hotel room ( looking for a television ) where a man is awaiting two guys whose task it is to kill his wife .  this man , thinking that beavis & butt-head are the assigned killers , tells them that they can have $10 , 000 if they " do his wife " .  beavis & butt-head , being the ignorant fools that they are , think that he is offering them $10 , 000 dollars to have sex with his good looking wife .  they are taken to the airport where they fly to las vegas to " do her " .  to them , this is the best day of their lives .  not only are they going to lose their virginity ( one of their lifelong aims ) , but most importantly , they will have enough money to buy a big screen tv .  inevitably they become caught up in a huge crime , and unbeknown to them , are tracked across the country by the fbi .  oddly enough , it is their complete stupidity that spares them from being caught , as a result the fbi is convinced they are criminal masterminds .  they end up travelling right across america , visiting places such as the hoover dam and washington dc .  the irony is that although they visit so many grand and spectacular locations , their one time out in the big world away from their television , they are completely oblivious to it .  at old faithful they are far more fascinated with the infra-red operated urinals than with the geyser itself .  beavis & butt-head essentially have the journey of their lives .  they even get to meet the president .  but all they care about is getting their television back , and losing their virginity .  this is one of the many reasons that the film is so funny - it's unbelievable just how stupid they are , and how they can be so oblivious to everything around them .  the humour is certainly crude , but then beavis & butt-head are just that ; crude , lude and rude .  in the end you can't help but feel sorry for them , a pair of anti-social couch potatoes whose life is television .  in this respect , and also with regard to authority ( such as the fbi ) mike judge is quite critical of amercian society .  if you are easily offended , or find this pair particularly annoying , steer clear .  otherwise , it should keep you laughing the whole way through .  one note of warning : don't take friends who like to imitate beavis & butt-head . . . . . you'll  never hear the end of it ! 
neg@ there are some pretty impressive stars in lost in space - it's just that none of them happen to be actors .  the stars i'm referring to are the computer generated ones that make up the movie's " outer space " ; the stars that the less impressive actors hurtle thru as they try to find their way home .  yes , in terms of acting , the star power is .   .   .  well , more like a falling star .  kinda pretty , short-lived , and pretty much dead .  lost in space , as if you really didn't know , is based on the 60's sci-fi television series of the same name .  it's the year 2058 , and earth's precious resources are quickly being usurped by the needs of its massive population .  john robinson ( william hurt ) is the scientist leading a mission program to colonize a foreign planet .  earth's entire existance is contingent upon a successful mission , but nobody , whether it be john's family or hired battle pilot don west ( matt leblanc ) , seems too enthusiastic about leaving their home planet for several years .  john's family consists of his wife maureen ( mimi rogers ) , his atypical teenage daughter penny ( lacey chabert ) , his ingenious son will ( jack johnson ) , and his beautiful scientist daughter judy ( heather graham ) .  despite everyone's reluctance , the jupiter 2 spacecraft abandons planet earth and makes its way into the vast eternity of space .  unknown to anyone but the audience , there is an evil doctor stowaway determined to sabotage the entire mission .  dr . smith ( gary oldman ) has been hired by a group of rebel conspirators to turn the expedition sour , and dr . smith has re-programmed a talking robot to " destroy robinson family " !  when everything that could go wrong does go wrong for both sides , the spaceship is warped to an unknown destination , and now the premise of being lost in space is complete .  as for the audience , you will likely be lost in boredom by this point , wondering if the plot , like the jupiter 2 , will ever get off the ground .  it's hard to tell who deserves the most blame - the incredibly bland and corny characters or the horrifically lame script ?  chabert is basically the only one to overdo it , sounding like a whiny munchkin on helium .  if you , like me , were convinced by commercials that her voice was altered for some sort of plot twist where her body would be taken over by aliens , you're wrong !  that's just her normal voice !  in yet another example of a " friend " faltering on the big screen , leblanc is so incredibly dull and yet so obviously trying so hard to be so incredibly charming ( make sense ? ) , it makes you want to shove his ass out the escape pod corridor without an escape pod .  graham is a babe - thank goodness there was something for me to think about during this film .  hurt , the black hole of excitement , sucks up any energy that might have been left .  if hurt were available in tablet form , he would be a prescription strength sleeping pill .  johnson isn't dull , he's just lame as the young know it all who winds up saving everybody's ass all the time .  want an example of how cool this kid can be ?  how about when he convinces the robot to think with its heart and reconsider killing the family ?  hey , don't laugh - the thing actually listened to the mr . rogers-would-be-proud sentiment .  but alas , if you thought a character couldn't be much worse , there was rogers as the epitome of generic ( or , mother as she was known ) .  why hire an actress ?  they could've had a white cardboard cutout with the word mom printed on it .  now that would've had some pizzazz !  lost in space luckily doesn't suffer in every single category that it could have .  the special effects are crisp , clear , and at least mildly captivating , unlike any of the presences onscreen save it be oldman , who plays his evil character with a great deal of fun and finesse .  unfortunately , oldman is locked away for most of the film , giving us nothing but ample mocking opportunities to enjoy .  while the special effects are pleasing to the eye , they are nothing you couldn't find in most modern sci-fi films .  contact , for example , far exceeds this film in terms of imagery and imagination .  lost in space just has too many shortcomings to ever be considered a work of cinematic art , with numerous contradictions ( the time travel aspect was horribly flawed ! ) , wooden and corny acting , worse dialogue , and an ending so disappointing , you'd be happier to have seen the entire robinson family get blown to smithereens .  then again , with an ending like this film has , it's obvious a sequel is already being considered .  what an awful note to end on , knowing there could be more of this in a year or two .  the attempt to be family oriented is commendable , but lost in space is lost with the illusion that special effects and the nostalgia of a classic tv series being revisited is enough to satisfy all age groups .  well , danger potential movie goers !  danger !  this movie crash lands without ever breaking thru the atmosphere of mediocrity . 
pos@ finding the courage to face life full-on is a difficult task .  summoning up the audacity to fall in love is a harder job .  if you're a total jerk like melvin udall is , the odds are even more against you .  melvin ( jack nicholson ) is a successful romance author who is just the opposite of what you would expect someone in that profession to be .  a solitary man hidden away in his new york apartment with no human interaction and not even a hint of ever having been in a passionate relationship , he avoids the outside world as much as possible .  his obsessive-compulsive disorder rules his life as he uses several different bars of soap to wash his hands and refuses to step on a crack on the sidewalk .   ( there's a great scene when he has to cross a floor made of mosaic tiles -- _very_small_ mosaic tiles . )  melvin has some great lines .  when his publisher's receptionist asks him how he writes women so well in his books , he responds " i think of men and i take away reason and accountability . "  don't get him wrong , he's not merely a misogynist .  setting his sights higher than that , he's also a homophobe , racist , anti-semite , xenophobe , animal-hater and intensely dislikes people who talk in metaphors .  when we first meet him , he's busy dumping a neighbor's dog down the garbage chute .  he's an equal opportunity bigot .  he does venture outside his apartment every day to eat breakfast at a local cafe .  melvin is such a grouchy curmudgeon that waitress carol connelly ( helen hunt ) is the only one willing to wait on him .  and she's none too happy about it .  when carol doesn't show up for work , melvin's routine is shot and he's determined to do something about it .  tracking down her address , he shows up at her place begging her to come back to work so that he can eat breakfast .  the fact that she's a poor single mother caring for a chronically ill son doesn't appear to phase him , he wants his food .  much more upsetting is that his gay artist neighbor simon bishop ( greg kinnear ) is brutally attacked during a robbery .  this doesn't upset melvin much ( " don't worry , you'll be back on your knees in no time " ) but when he is bullied into taking care of simon's dog , his life is turned topsy-turvey .  melvin is sequestered because he's afraid of what's out there on the other side of his apartment door .  he has to make sure it's ritualistically locked three times to keep the world on its proper side .  when he brings the dog home he reluctantly grows fond of it , talking to it and taking it everywhere he goes .  this little crack in his emotional armor opens him up .  hiding behind his need for carol to return to work so she can serve him , he pays for a specialist to treat her son .  he even develops a friendship with simon .  all three people are heavily damaged .  melvin has retreated from life in his apartment .  carol has devoted herself to her son , convinced that she has to give up her life for him .  simon is estranged from his parents and his friends disappear when he is hospitalized and his money runs out .  a more unlikely trio to form relationships , you'd rarely see .  and in the midst of it all , there are some wonderful moments .  melvin is hilarious in his grouchiness and touching as he attempts to be nice .   " you make me want to be a better man , " he tells her .  one of the best aspects is that even as he opens up , he is still a curmudgeon .  carol , afraid that his monetary contribution to the wellness of her son hides a hidden agenda rushes over to his apartment in the rain to explain in no uncertain terms that she will never sleep with him .  it only takes her a second to realize that she is delivering that statement while looking as if she just left a wet t-shirt contest .  there's hardly anything left to say about jack nicholson .  i don't remember ever seeing him in anything less than a stellar performance and his over-the-edge melvin is no disappointment .  nicholson may be the best actor working today .  hunt does a commendable job matching nicholson's energy .  she isn't afraid to be seen as something less than a babe and her portrayal of exhausted run-down carol struggling with seemingly overwhelming obligations is top-notch .  their on-screen chemistry is a bit odd .  each does a wonderful job with the character , but together , there's something a little off .  it's a minor problem : they do work well together , but that missing element is what prevents this from being a four-star film .  director james l . brooks ( " terms of endearment " , " broadcast news " ) has a movie that is picking up awards by the bucketsful ( nominees for all the top golden globes , winners from the national board of review , inevitable oscars ) and has a winner on his hands .   " as good as it gets " isn't exactly the quality that the title says , but it's pretty darn close .   ( michael redman has written this column for over 22 years and as soon as he finishes this one , he's off to an annual 12 night celebration typically held in freezing weather during a snowstorm .  this year it's in the sixties and raining .  that wacky el nino . ) 
neg@ when walt disney pictures announced a live-action feature based on the '60s cartoon series of " mr . magoo , " special interests groups representing the vision-impaired let out a cry of dismay .  mr .  magoo , they claimed , would be an insult to the men and women they represented .  in fact , they were wrong .  mr .  magoo is not just an insult to the blind and near-blind , it's an insult to every human being who has the misfortune to suffer through this dreadfully unfunny , 90 minute atrocity .  it's stating the obvious to remark that disney appears to have run out of original ideas .  look at their roster of 1996 and 1997 releases , and you'll see a shocking list of retreads , including 101 dalmatians , george of the jungle , jungle2jungle , that darn cat ! , flubber , and now mr .  magoo .  the best of these ( george of the jungle ) was mildly entertaining .  the worst , mr .  magoo , exposes just how painful a bad movie experience can be .  the first problem with mr .  magoo is the script .  despite the collaboration of naked gun scribe pat proft , mr .  magoo is comically barren .  from beginning to end , there's not a laugh to be found .  every attempt at humor -- and there are lots of them -- falls flat with an audible thud .  you'd think that out of the dozens of gags jammed into this film , at least a few would work , but that's not the case .  i've had more laughs during ingmar bergman pictures .  then there's leslie nielsen , who looks , sounds , and acts absolutely nothing like the animated character ( memorably voiced by jim backus ) .  in the past , nielsen has proven his comic aptitude with roles in movies like airplane and the naked gun .  lately , however , he has been getting lazy , taking parts in the likes of dracula : dead and loving it , spy hard , and mr .  magoo .  even if nielsen was in top form , it would take an incredible stretch of imagination to see him as magoo ( especially since we're reminded of the original by the short cartoon segments that open and close the film ) , but " top form " is not a phrase i would use to describe his performance here .  this is strictly a take-the-money-and- run operation .  the story , which , like many disney stories , can be described in one long sentence : magoo is the only witness to the theft of a rare jewel from a museum , and , as he is trying to apprehend the thieves on his own , the police mistake him for the robber .  the cops are played by ernie hudson and stephen tobolowsky , who take their lumps early and often .  the bad guys are kelly lynch ( who does a lot of martial arts-type kicking ) , nick chinlund , and malcolm mcdowell ( who has the good sense to look embarrassed ) .  matt keeslar portrays one of magoo's sidekicks -- his nephew , waldo .  the bumbling man's other , more interesting companion is a dog named angus .  most of mr .  magoo's humor comes in the form of failed slapstick .  the cartoon violence level in this film doesn't approach that of home alone 3 or flubber , but it's still pretty acute , with characters getting hit on the head with sledgehammers and knocked off snowy precipices .  there's a non-violent bit with magoo preparing a chicken dinner that could have been funny if it was handled better , but , compared to mr . bean's recent , similar misadventure , it doesn't hold up well .  then there is the series of lame jokes that result from magoo's near blindness , such as the occasion when he mistakes a wild animal for a baby .  i'm willing to cut director stanley tong a little slack .  tong , a hong kong film maker trying to break into the hollywood market , has helmed several jackie chan movies , including first strike , rumble in the bronx , and supercop .  his chief talent , that of choreographing martial arts fights , is wasted here ( despite some high kicking by kelly lynch ) .  like john woo ( hard target ) and ringo lam ( maximum risk ) before him , it appears that tong has been consigned to the purgatory of making a bad movie as his entry into the american mainstream .  it is worth noting that , unlike many disney films which hold a perverse appeal for the under-10 crowd while driving parents to distraction , mr .  magoo appears to bore viewers of all ages .  the screening i attended was wall-to-wall kids , and , for the most part , they didn't seem to be enjoying themselves .  when the film was over , i asked one little girl what she thought of it .  her pained expression confirmed the adage that a picture can indeed be worth a thousand words .  mr .  magoo is the kind of movie that should be rejected by any potential viewer , sight unseen . 
pos@ seen at the 21st portland international film festival  film title : supermarket woman director : juzo itami country : japan 1997 cinematography : yonezo maeda music : toshiyuki honda cast : nobuko miyamoto , masahitko tsugawa , shiro ito , yuji miyake , akiko matsumoto super features : typical itami film . . .  funny and pointed in its own way .  if you don't care how and what the food you buy goes through in your local supermarket , then this film is not for you . . . .  maybe it is better to ignore it , as this strong and biting satire , as only juzo itami can deliver , will give you an insight as to what some foods go through .  having , in the past , made films that pulled every punch imaginable , from the family traditions ( the funeral ) , to taxes ( a taxing woman & a taxing woman returns ) , to the diabolical gangsters ( minbo ) , to hospitals ( the seriously ill ) , juzo itami , this time takes on the supermarkets' own war , to get the consumers .  and while this film has its funny side , in the crazy situations that it creates , it also shows another side , which is very much the attitude of a corporate structure that is more concerned with its profits than it is with any customer .  goro has a supermarket .  and a competitor comes into the neighborhood , trying to take him out of business by providing less expensive prices for everything that is sold in the supermarket .  bargains galore , its name , has in mind the closure of goro's humbler venue , so that in the end it can mark up its prices in any way it can .  goro hires hanako , a housewife whose talents seem to be better suited to management , than they are in anything else .  hanako , as she gets familiar with the operation , discovers many of the tricks of the trade , done by many of the elders in charge of each section of the market .  and the procedures , are not always " fresh " food , but a new packaging and a new date , to try and convince the customers that quality is on the shelves .  hanako's ideas take hold , starting with a few of the women that work in the supermarket , being that they do not even shop there at all .  and hanako discovers along the way that a few giveaways here and there make a bit of a difference .  if not cause some serious problems in the running of the store .  a price error , forces them to give away eggs for very low prices , and causes the store a few hassles , but , it brought the people in , and everyone knows that these customers will buy a few other things .  as the operation gets stronger , the competition also has trickery up its sleeve , and it has been undermining much of the operation by paybacks to one of the store managers , as well as the meat and fish elder supervisors .  eventually these people are found out , and hanako has to tread slowly and carefully , until in the end they all have a showdown .  and here , the truth and honesty win out , and even one of the elders decides to stay rather than go to work for the corrupt opponent .  in the process , they also find that " freshness " ( with some very funny jokes on this word as well ) becomes a much more important tool than they imagined .  with some very nice performances , in this hectic , and fast paced film , this film gives us a sitting of two hours that is satisfying in many ways , although a failed love story between goro and hanako does not come off much , even though towards the end it is suggested .  but this would take away from the satire and its strengths .  with food gags all over the place , the film lets you have it .  and what fun it is .  worth seeing .   ( editorial ) the director of this film , juzo itami , died shortly after the film was finished , and he left behind a legacy of comedy and satire that is rare , and uncompromising .  we would wish that he had been able to make one about film making , of which he must have had a few stories to tell , but we will have to do with much of the japanese society , and its many errant ways . . . .  not to say that these things do not happen anywhere else . . . .  america is no less guilty of any of these subjects at all , should anyone have the guts to tackle it . . .  we could learn something along the way , too . . . .  worth seeing , specially , is a taxing woman and its follow up a taxing woman returns .  the funeral is also good , although not as funny as the later films .  tampopo is also very enjoyable .  all four of these films are available in video , which means your best local site for foreign film may have them . . .  ask for it . 
neg@ synopsis : sonny koufax ( adam sandler ) is a rich , childish , angry man who has just been dumped by his girlfriend vanessa ( kristy swanson ) .  in a bid to impress vanessa sonny impersonates his friend kevin ( jon stewart ) and adopts a 5 year old boy named julian ( cole and dylan sprouse ) while kevin is on an overseas trip .  under sonny's supervision julian soon learns to lie to women , tell people how he " wipes his ass , " throw tantrums , and scream for his " god damned " treats .  self centered , julian breaks a school classmate's arm without apologizing or even realizing he has done anything wrong .  meanwhile sonny bribes julian with sugary talk , food , toys , and flashy promises in order to get the kid to perform .  not surprisingly the government takes julian away from sonny's incompetent supervision , and this leads to a custody battle .  opinion : it's a movie about an embittered creep teaching a little kid to be a jerk , and we all get cheap laughs because for 90 minutes the innocent kindergartner never finds out what it means when he mimics all the bad boy behavior .  that's the essence of big daddy .  but there's a bigger issue involved : marketing .  movies that are rated pg and pg-13 are heavily marketed towards children of preteen age and below .  on tv , film clips advertise these movies as family-friendly hit comedies .  then when you go see them they turn out to be either raunchy sex acts like austin powers with characters named fat bastard - - or big daddy where adult characters get their jollies by buddying up to naive five year olds and encouraging them to experiment with drugs and mistreatment .  folks in hollywood are trying to develop a preteen market for raunchy stuff , but i think most american parents would agree that early childhood is a time of mental innocence that should be protected from uncaring media market exploitation .  to many american mothers there's probably nothing more pathetic and unsettling than the sight of a theater full of unsupervised little eight year olds laughing raucously as movie character father adam sandler jokes about a woman's " ice cold tits . " 
pos@  " footloose " has only one goal in mind : to reel in an audience with cheesy sentiment and feel-good antics .  and i hate to admit it ; i fell for it .  the movie is about a teenager ( bacon ) who moves to a small town from the big city , and discovers that dancing has been banned by the local reverend ( lithgow ) .  he ends up falling for the preacher's daughter ( singer ) and showing the whole town what the magic of dance can do .  as mentioned at the beginning of this review , " footloose " is an extremely hokey and predictable teen drama .  there are virtually no surprises , and the writing is second-rate .  so why did i enjoy it so much ?  for one thing , the cast is great .  kevin bacon oozes charisma in an early role .  we're rooting for him right from the start , and , unlike most films of this genre , bacon doesn't play him as the " rebel without a clue " sort .  yes , he does rebel , but he's also polite when he needs to be .  and he never broods .  the rest of the cast is equally impressive .  john lithgow , seen here playing a normal guy for a change , is playing a man who would normally be a flat out villian .  but lithgow plays him as a concerned father who is trying to do what he feels is best for his daughter .  by the end of the film , we feel a genuine sense of love and understanding between him and the lori singer character .  another nice touch is the music .  we see the parents of the kids complaining that the music they listen to is filled with " sexual innuendos " , but that's not true at all .  the title track , performed by kenny loggins , is upbeat and fun .  during the final sequence , i was overcome with the urge to get off the couch and start dancing .  of course , i soon realized that would be a little pathetic .  anyway , " footloose " is a charming little surprise .  don't let the premise prevent you from watching it .  it sucked me in , and it'll do the same to you . 
neg@ tv's buffy finds herself on the other side of the supernatural spectrum in " simply irresistible . "  sarah michelle gellar , that never-ceasing crusader against never-ending evil every tuesday night on the wb network , here plays a down-on-her-luck chef suspected of dabbling in witchcraft after her flailing restaurant receives help in the form of magically scrumptious meals .  taste test results : some vampire slaying , though out of place , would have really livened this excruciating movie up .   " simply irresistible " is actually quite easy to deny , a disaster of culinary and other proportions pretty much from the opening on .  gellar's amanda finds herself falling for harried henri bendel exec tom ( sean patrick flannery of powder ) around the same time she discovers an uncanny ability to mystically manifest emotions in her cooking , a secret ingredient that arouses both his interest in her and the public's in her tiny tribeca eatery .  all this love and sorcery have a lot to do with the telekinetic crab that also figures into the story , a tale that at times plays like an american spin on 1993's mexican classic " like water for chocolate . "  several differences : one , " like water " didn't have a telekinetic crab , and two , " like water " was a good film .   " simply irresistible , " on the other hand , is about as challenging as an easy-bake oven .  amateurishly staged scenes cancel each other out in their badness , from an embarrassing seduction in a literal vanilla fog to an impromptu dance sequence where tom and amanda do their best fred and ginger - though fred and ginger never took part in anything this garish .  the intrusive musical score distracts from the flat dialogue at regular intervals , but it's not like you're were going to miss much .  in fact , take away the few instances of salty language and this has made-for-disney channel written all over it .  but a majority of " simply irresistible " 's resistibility factor has less to do with the afore-mentioned overkill than the bland leads - tom and amanda are so thin and ambiguously defined that there's just no fun rooting for their inevitable " happily ever after . "  nor do the otherworldly powers that serve to bring them together make sense , so we're left with a ho-hum relationship based on enchanted eclairs ; it's not going to last long , people .  perhaps sensing this , the filmmakers have piled on weird supporting characters for acting vets like betty buckley , dylan baker and patricia clarkson , but they don't go anywhere either .  in fact , nothing in " simply irresistible " goes anywhere save for gellar , and she doesn't go somewhere so much as you wish she'd go _somewhere_ - like to a better movie .  already proving major talent with relatively few big- and small-screen roles , she's the sole reason this overcooked souffle isn't completely fit for the garbage disposal , looking smashing in her todd oldham-designed duds and investing much more in her perfunctory part than she ever gets in return .  it's certainly a dish best not served in it's current condition , but one can only guess that , without gellar , " simply irresistible " would be strictly unwatchable . 
pos@ full metal jacket , very much like every other hard-hitting film about the vietnam war , is an shocking , emotional depiction of the war that effected almost everyone in america .  this film is more like platoon than any other in the way that it chronicles the struggles of a young man ( private joker , played by matthew modine ) during his tour in the vietnam war .  however , full metal jacket gives the audience an insight into combat life very rarely seen before : boot camp .  these sequences are considered to be the best part in this three act film , even though i found the later portions to be equally stunning .  as in platoon , full metal jacket gets off to a quick start .  the opening sequence is the initiation for the recruits , which is getting their heads shaved .  from there , they find themselves standing at attention and receiving their orders from the extremely hard and punishing sergeant hartman , played extremely well by the former drill instructor r . lee ermey .  apparently , the solution was found for the perfect man to play a drill instructor in the movies , because ermey depicts his character extremely well and will make you thank whomever that you were never subjected to such horrible situations .  private joker gets off on the wrong foot with the sergeant , as does the large bodied private leonard lawrence ( vincent d'onofrio ) , whom is dubbed 'gomer pyle' by sgt .  hartman .  the film is continually narrated by private joker , in which he explains his visions on what is going on .  the entire corps , although repeatedly hammered by sgt .  hartman , continues on .  private pyle , however , seems to be the rag doll for the drill instructor .  he continually absorbs the worst punishment and humiliation , and it basically does not stop .  that is , until sgt .  hartman comes up with a new plan .  he will punish the rest of the soon-to-be-marines for pyle's goof-ups , even after joker was assigned to help him out in the best way he can .  pyle then receives punishment from his fellow recruits , and things take a turn for the worst .  pyle proves that not everyone is emotionally , physically , and mentally cut out for the life of a marine .  after graduation , joker is sent over to the height of the action in order to document the war , which is his service .  he is not a member of the infantry , and it is unclear if he will ever actually find himself in combat .  when he sets out on a documenting mission , this question becomes very clear from the start .  joker joins up with a platoon , along with his hometown friend cowboy ( arliss howard ) , and follows their everyday actions , interviewing and filmming them along the way .  he also soon finds himself in a position in which he must fight , or die .  again , as in the tradition of vietnam war films , full metal jacket can be debated as to whether it is an anti-war film or not .  a few of the more powerful scenes toward the end will leave you to decide .  full metal jacket succeeds extremely well in documenting the life of a young man in vietnam , as have others in the past .  this film , in different ways , also can be viewed as more powerful than others .  that , again , is up for debate and depends on your opinion .  one thing is for sure , however ; no one ever wants to experience the absolute hell that these soldiers are subjected to .  unfortunately , many did . 
neg@  " knock off " is exactly that : a cheap knock off of an action movie .  it's also the worst movie i have seen thus far this year .  i figured it would be at least a couple of months before i saw the worst film of 1998 , but alas , it has already been found .  jean-claude van damme stars as ( i think ) a designer jeans executive who discovers his half-brother has been supplying him with cheaper goods .  rob schneider plays van damme's partner , and rochon plays . . .  actually , i have no idea who rochon was supposed to be .  she just sort of popped up halfway through without an explanation as to why she was there .  many things are not explained in this film , but i do know that for some bizarre reason , van damme seemed to be doing a jackie chan impression throughout the flick .  where chan comes off as endearing in his " normal guy " character seen in many of his films , van damme just comes off as a wimp .  we're never given any clear explanation as to the basis for many of his actions .  to be more clear : i did not even know who he was supposed to be until about an hour into the movie , and even then , it was not made too clear .  the film has been directed in the style of some strange film experiment gone horribly wrong .  tsui hark ( who directed van damme's last movie , the bad , but not nearly as bad as this , " double team " ) never lets the camera rest for a second , and that's no exaggeration .  we are even treated to a five second shot from the point of view of van damme's foot entering a shoe .  fabulous !  seriously , though , i have no problem with directors who want to play around with film conventions , as long as they don't get carried away .  for example , look at sam raimi .   " army of darkness " , one of his best movies , features some of the most inventive camera work i have ever seen , but raimi never lets the special effects get in the way of story .  that's a concept that tsui can't seem to grasp .  the special effects and outrageous camera angles * rule * " knock off " to the point where the audience doesn't have a clue as to what's happening any more .  another problem with the film is that it looks cheap .  the film stock used is of such low caliber that i thought i was watching one of those chinese films shown really late at night .  and for some inexplicable reason , everyone's voice seems to have been dubbed .  even the stars .  and even the special effects , seemingly the only aspect of the film the director actually cared about , are inconsistent .  for example , there is a scene in which van damme drives a car out of a window .  the car slams into the ground , and the left wheel is completely destroyed .  seconds later , the car drives off at full speed .  hey , i have no problem suspending my disbelief in an action movie , but a line must be drawn somewhere .  finally , the acting .  nobody gives a good performance in this film .  van damme , an actor i usually like , is way off the mark playing " everyman " .  and schneider , here to provide comic relief i assume , is totally unfunny and over acts his way through every scene .  even the usually solid paul sorvino gives a terribly over-the-top performance as . . .  once again , i have no idea who he was supposed to be .  in case i haven't yet made it clear enough , " knock off " is the worst movie of van damme's career and possibly the worst movie of the decade .  and it's not even one of those movies that's so bad it's funny .  it's too inept to be funny .  there are no redeeming factors in " knock off " and i seriously hope that every print of this film is burned to a crisp and that somehow my memory of watching the film can be erased . 
pos@ when quentin tarantino made " pulp fiction " , he was not only making the greatest film of the 90s ; he was also making what i believe to be the most influential movie of all time .  but before you send me hate-mail for not giving that title to " citizen kane " , hear me out .  much like " citizen kane " , " pulp fiction " has changed movie making forever .  but i think the latter has had a tad more impact .   " pulp fiction " has actually ushered in a new era of film making .  it has altered the way films will be viewed .   " fiction " has spawned so many imitations , i've lost count .  sure , some have been excellent ( " bound " and " the usual suspects " spring immediately to mind ) , but any serious movie-goer recognizes " pulp fiction " as the original neo-noir of the 90s .  in this review , i hope to change all the people's minds who have criticized it for it's excessive profanity and violence ( which , by the way , isn't really that graphic ) .  the most brilliant aspect of tarantino's masterpiece is the screenplay .  it is filled with so much classic dialogue ( the " quarter pounder with cheese " speech will go down in history ) , it should be required reading for any film student , if it isn't already .  the story ( told in unorthodox non-linear format ) centers around three main episodes , all of which eventually intertwine .  the first , titled " vincent vega and marcellus wallace's wife " , deals with a very loaded john travolta ( i forgot to mention the cool heroin shoot-up sequence ) taking mia wallace ( a star-making performance by uma thurman ) , his bosses wife , out on a date to a cool 50s restaurant called jack rabbit slim's .  they talk for a while ( with the occasional " uncomfortable silence " ) , mostly about a guy called tony rocky horror .  after giving marcellus' new bride a foot massage , he was thrown off a building and into a greenhouse , giving him a " speech impediment " .  they also partake in a cool dance contest and end up twisting to the chuck berry classic " you never can tell " .  i won't reveal the rest of the story , but i'll definitely say that it turns out to be a real bummer of a night , despite the cool trophy they win .  the second story ( the least of the three but still four stars ) stars bruce willis ( proving he can play someone other than john mcclain in the " die hard " flicks ) as boxer butch coolidge .  previously in the film ( like i said , it's told in non-linear form ) , he had made a deal with marcellus wallace that he would take a fall in a match .  as it turns out , he not only doesn't take the fall , but he ends up actually killing his opponent .  he takes a cab to his half-witted girlfriend's apartment , and to make a long story short , ends up going back to his own place to retrieve a gold watch , sort of a family heirloom explained by christopher walken in a hilarious flash-back sequence .  on his way home , he bumps into ( literally ) marcellus .  the two winde up prisoner to two hillbilly sex murderers , which results in the infamous " gimp " scene , which is very reminicent of the " squeal like a pig ! "  scene from " deliverance " .  the last ( and best , in my opinion ) of the episodes features john travolta ( again ) and samuel l . jackson ( in the best performance of any supporting actor ever ) as two slightly off-kilter hitmen trying to rid themselves of a bloody car .  they seek help with a friend of jackson's ( played by the q-man himself ) , desperately in need of a stress ball .  they end up calling a " cleaner " of sorts , played by the god among men harvey keitel , to help them out .  in the end , the story brilliantly loops around itself , actually ending where it began .  if you haven't already seen the film ( or even if you have , for that matter ) , i suggest you invest your money in a copy of the letterbox collectors edition .  it features two previously unreleased scenes and the original film restored how it was originally meant to be seen .  earlier today , i bought this version and watched it a few hours ago .  what the pan-and-scan did to this movie is inexcusable .  that version cut out , like , half the movie .  what i have missed in the past years of viewing this flick is amazing .  for instance , when travolta and jackson are in the apartment near the end , the widescreen version allows you to see that several things on the walls make crosses .  this might help explain the divine intervention that takes place .  just a theory . . .  one of the things that pisses people off so much about this movie is that tarantino borrowed alot of scenes from other movies ( i . e .   " psycho " " kiss me deadly " , " deliverance " , etc . ) .  but why shouldn't he ?  it's not like he out-right and blatantly stole .  give the guy a break .  in case you haven't already noticed , i believe " pulp fiction " is a supremely excellent film and one of the best of all time ( up there with such greats as " casablanca " and " the godfather " ) .  trust me , you will not see a better film come out of the 90s .  and besides , it's one hell of a ride .  note : if anyone knows how i could get a " bad motherfucker " wallet , please e-mail me .  any help would be greatly appreciated . 
neg@ look ! the new version of " psycho " came out and the world didn't end !  i guess gus van sant really isn't the bringer of the apocalypse !  unfortunately , though , that " psycho " didn't end the world as we know is the best thing that can be said for it .  van sant's controversial " re-telling " of alfred hitchcock's classic 1960 film has polarized filmgoers everywhere ( even before it premiered . )  without benefit of an actual viewing , many have said that the film will , at best , suck .  being an ( almost ) good critic , i waited until i actually saw it to decide that the film , at best , sucked ( and that concludes the use of the word " suck " and , hopefully , the thoughts that i am a brain-dead orangutan . )  director gus van sant took the original hitchcock film and refilmed it , shot-for-shot , using the same , exact script ( with a few minor alterations . )  the inherent challenge was in making the film suspenseful and scary , even though a large group of the audience will know exactly what will happen at the exact time .  suspense probably could have been attained if the actors had been able to create something new or different than the original .  sadly , that did not occur .  it is hard to be overshadowed by vera miles and john gavin ( from the original " psycho ) , but that is what exactly happened to julianne moore and viggo mortensen .  in moore's case , the film would have been helped if " the x- files " gillian anderson had been cast instead ; especially since moore goes through the entire film doing a scully impression !  from the cold demeanor and expressions to her rigid way of forming a sentence , moore is scully !  mortensen ( who i liked in " g . i .  jane " ) opts to play sam loomis as a cowboy/hick , which would have been nice if he had gone past that starting point .  sam has a twang and a cowboy hat , but that's about it .  mortensen turns in one of the most uptight performance in recent memory .  anne heche , in the janet leigh role , does a few good things in her brief time on screen .  at least her marion crane has a little life in her , which can't be said for most of the rest of the cast .  the best work , though , comes from vince vaughn , as the demented mama's boy , norman bates .  he's not going to make anyone forget anthony perkins , but he is effective both in being naughty and nice .  the best part of the film is the dinner scene heche and vaughn , where they simply talk .  there is some solid acting there , something that is not carried through the rest of the film .  van sant has made a boring film .  all the camera tricks that hitchcock so eloquently used in 1960 aren't as eye-catching now .  what passed for brilliance then has been copied so many times by so many directors that they don't impress or excite .  van sant , in what i assume is a grasp at originality , decided to put some stream-of-consciousness images into a few famous scenes ( was that a lamb in the middle of the road ? )  these images , included with some questionable editing choices , took away from the scenes themselves and caused , at first , bewilderment and , later , laughter .  definitely not hitchcock's intention !  at least danny elfman had the good sense to not mess with bernard herrmann's original famous and terrific score .  if a film like " psycho " does not frighten , then what's the point .  aside from norman , the characters are thinly drawn people who leave no connection with the audience .  there are things van sant and company could have done to at least make their recreation interesting .  in the end , however , the new " psycho " is a noble attempt , but , alas , a dismal failure . 
pos@ capsule : bleak and point-blank -- just the way it should be .  makes its case with cold-blooded precision and intelligence .   " serial killer chic " is a relatively new entry to the cultural vocabulary , and one of the more stomach-turning ones .  i've never found someone automatically admirable or even interesting because they killed creatively or in great numbers , and because of that i had apprehensions about seeing henry .  i wasn't sure i wanted to see the story of multiple murderer henry lee lucas portrayed as some kind of nihilistic hero/antihero .  thankfully , that's not the way henry works .  the director , john mcnaughton , took a small budget and a gallery of actor friends and created a chilling and intelligent piece of work .  it doesn't provide cheap-jack explanations for henry's behavior : it shows him up for what he is , an unrepentant and un-idolizable man who killed when the mood struck him .  at the film's opening , henry's friend ottis toole has a sister , who comes by to stay while she tries to find work in chicago .  in a viciously riveting scene , he admits matter-of-factly to having murdered his own mother , and she covers his hand with hers .  they are damned together from that moment on .  henry and ottis eventually begin to kill for fun .  the movie is especially good at showing how they seem to have drifted casually into it : there's a scene where the two go to buy a new tv .  the pawnbroker they talk to goads henry with ugly words , and henry responds by stabbing the man to death with a soldering iron .  no preface -- it smashes into us as suddenly as it does the broker .  in a scene which many damned the movie for , unseen , they steal a video camera and film the murder of a whole household , playing it back over and over again for their own enjoyment .  the movie itself , however , does not glorify the killings , but shows instead that henry feels no joy at his work , only irritation .  henry succeeds thanks to excellent writing and direction as well as acting .  michael rooker is credible as henry from the first frame , just standing there , and the rest of the cast works by being unaffected and casual as well .  the producers had originally comissioned a slasher film from mcnaughton , but he decided to give them something more memorable , and consequently the film nearly didn't see release .  the film does not glorify or justify -- it just shows us , with unflinching coldness , what henry was .  i'm hard pressed to see how anyone can see this and consider henry any kind of " victim " or " hero " .  then again , probably , so would henry . 
neg@ at one point in this movie there is a staging of an opera that goes completely wrong .  but one member of the crowd stands up and cheers , thinking the performance was planned , and applauding it for their efforts .  that's " dirty work " in a nutshell .  a very different kind of movie .  this is not a movie that i can easily review .  the critic in me analyzes the structure , plot , acting , characters .   .   . and  tells me this movie is terrible .  but the norm macdonald fan in me had me rolling on the floor laughing .  this movie plays more like an hbo sketch comedy than a movie .  it's a one note concept .  mitch and sam need $50000 in order to bribe a doctor to give their father a heart transplant before other more needy patients .  realizing they are very good at revenge plots , they open a revenge for hire business , eventually running afoul of a rich businessman played by christopher macdonald ( who after roles in " happy gilmore " and " veronica's closet " seems typcast in this role ) , who sends them to destroy a building that mitch learns is the home of his girlfriend's grandmother , thus leading them to plot against the rich businessman on the night of the grand opening of a new opera house .  first the critic in me .  the plot is the standard poor guy vs evil rich guy device , where the main character meets the girl of his dreams along the way .  here's the catch .  none of the characters are sympathetic .  they're all selfish jerks who don't care who they hurt in their attempts to do whatever they want .  the jokes are juvenile , crude , appealing to the worst elements in people .  there's jokes about prostitutes , the homeless , beastiality , anal sex .  there's even a subplot that's developed , it seems , only to make jokes about infidelity and incest .  and i loved watching it .  i was a huge fan of norm macdonald's sarcastic , to-the-point comedy on saturday night live , and this movie is an hour and a half of it .  norm macdonald takes a joke , strips it to the core , and tells it like it is with a dry wit .  like the scene were he and his friend are learning the ropes at a new construction job .  the foreman goes over the basics , which mitch and sam don't understand .  how do they get out of it ?  by admiting they lied on their resumes , and don't know a thing about construction !  and surprise , they get fired .  the characters are incredibly mean-spirited .  there's a father who's loud and obnoxious , a gambling addicted doctor played by chevy chase who tells sam of his father's condition by saying " if i were a gambling man i'd put a lot of money on death . "  the businessman cole who always has his dog spunky , and does who knows what with it .  and then there's mitch and sam , who , thinking they can get $50000 by destroying a building , ponder how their actions would ruin the lives of the residents .   " too bad we have to do it , " mitch says .  here's a movie where every joke that is executed as it is set up , where you see every punchline coming , where every spot profanity could be used and then is used .  at least the film is honest , and makes no mistake that it is anything more than idiotic .  but at least it isn't dull , and it isn't predictable .  and that's the way it should be .  it's sketch comedy , and if you're a fan of norm macdonald , you'll love it .  the jokes are crude , the characters are mean to the core , the attitude of the movie is that it just doesn't care .  if you don't like norm macdonald , or stupid movies , then you probably won't like this one .  the jokes are crude , the characters are mean to the core , the attitude of the movie is that it just doesn't care .  so before seeing this one , tune your mindset , and prepare for a slew of norm macdonald humor , gay animal sex , prison rape jokes , uncaring characters , and one last performance from chris farley .  the critic in me says ( * ) but i give it an 8 ( * * * ) .  i just couldn't stop laughing . 
pos@  " desperate measures " was something i was excited about seeing back when it was originally scheduled to be released : summer '97 .  for some reason , it was delayed until hollywood's traditional dumping ground : january .  now that it's out , i see no real reason for that delay , as it's a simple yet highly entertaining film .  michael keaton stars as a maniacial murderer who's bone marrow can save the life of the dying son of a san francisco police detective ( garcia ) .  keaton agrees to the transplant , only so he can attempt escape .  he succeeds , in a plan that of course could only work in the movies .  the police force is now trying to kill keaton , while garcia is working against them trying to keep keaton alive in order to save his son .  the film definately has it's flaws .  the plot is strictly tv movie of the week fare , but the acting and direction certainly boost it far above that status .  also , after keaton's escape , garcia's captain barks at him " how many men have to die to save your kid's life ? "  which the film treats as such an evil and insignificant remark .  the thing is , it's a vaild point .  how many people have to be needlessly crippled , burned , and killed just to save this one child ?  what's the greater good here ?  many lives or one life ?  if movies really had guts nowadays , i would have loved to have seen this movie come down to a final choice for garcia's character .  place him in a situation where he knows that he has to kill keaton because keaton is about to kill someone else .  alas , movies these days generally have no such ambition to pull the audience's strings in ways which might make the uncomfortable .  despite a few silly moments ( and one or two really stupid ones ) , the good things about " desperate measures " outnumber the bad .  the main highlight would be keaton's performance .  the character could have easily been an overacting , scene chewing freak , but keaton underplays it nicely .  he's not as menacing as he was in " pacific heights " or even as menacing as he was in " batman " ( yes kids , batman used to be a dark character ) , but you certainly get the idea that he's evil .  even the final scene of the film , which normally i would just hate , seems strangely appropriate for this film .  so much so that i didn't mind it in the slightest .  and another bonus : the film takes place in san francisco , which usually means a car chase on those hills that you've seen a billion times before .  and for a moment , it looked as though it was about to happen .  but it doesn't , and that's creative .  [r] 
neg@ synopsis : al simmons , top-notch assasin with a guilty conscience , dies in a fiery explosion and goes to hell .  making a pact with malebolgia , a chief demon there , simmons returns to earth 5 years later reborn as spawn , a general in hell's army donning a necroplasmic costume replete with knives , chains , and a morphing cape .  sullen , wise cogliostro and flatulating , wisecracking violator vy for spawn's attention .  comments : when todd mcfarlane left marvel comics ( where he had made a name for himself as a first-rate comic book penciller on the " spider-man " titles ) to join the newly-formed , creator-owned image comics , a new comic book legend was born : spawn .  mcfarlane's " spawn " immediately became a commercial and critical success and a defining comic book series of the 1990s .  mcfarlane created a hero who was not only original but visually intricate , allowing mcfarlane to utilize his knack for artistic detail to the max .  the early " spawn " issues brilliantly capture mcfarlane's genius at illustration and show his early attempts at writing .  with the popularity of " spawn " and the success of the current warner bros . 's batman film franchise , a movie version of some sort seemed inevitable for spawn .  in the summer of 1997 , hence , new line cinema released spawn , a live-action film based on the groundbreaking series .  this topheavy exercise in violence and special effects unfortunately topples quickly and leaves fans of the comic book , like me , numbed by how much spawn misses the mark .  what happened ?  why is spawn so bad ?  todd mcfarlane himself executive produced this disappointing misfire and even appears in a cameo .  i don't think , however , that his presence necessarily hurt ( or helped ) the film .  i place the blame , in part , on the recent hollywood trend , fueled by public demand apparently , for special effects blow-out movies utilizing the latest computer technology .  these films focus upon the effects at the expense of everything else : character , plot , dialogue , etc . spawn , reflecting this trend , shows the audience one gratuitous scene after another populated with morphing characters and filled with unnecessary pyrotechnics .  hardly a minute goes by in this film without fires , explosions , knives and chains appearing out of nowhere , glowing eyes , or constantly transforming demons .  a lot of it is visually interesting and technically solid , don't get me wrong , but , because the script and cast aren't engaging , spawn ultimately comes across like overwrought wallpaper ( the surface may capture the eye , but nothing exists underneath ) .  spawn's translation of the comic book suffers the most at the storyline level .  mcfarlane's spawn was a tortured hero .  a mercenary by trade , al simmons was nonetheless a warm man in love with the beautiful wanda .  having died and journeyed to hell , he made a pact to return to earth to be with wanda .  simmons , however , discovers that his memories are fragmented , his body a creepy mess , and his wife married .  despite his sometimes violent nature , readers couldn't help but feel sympathetic toward his plight as the spawn of the underworld .  spawn attempts to show all of this but does not spend nearly the time it should to do so .  when the characters are developed , they seem absurd rather than touching .  the cartoonish dialogue and implausible subplot ( a general possesses the antidote to a supervirus called heat-16 which he wishes to unleash to enslave the world ) do not help matters .  spawn , in an apparent attempt to duplicate the success of batman , also unwisely spends too much time on a villain , the violator ( batman favored the joker over batman ) .  john leguizamo , like jack nicholson in batman , receives top billing in the cast as the violator ; michael jai white ( al simmons / spawn ) is second .  i ordinarily find leguizamo an intensely annoying presence in films which seems to make him a perfect candidate for the violator .  the film , however , spends so much time on the violator's offensive antics that they grate on the nerves .  apparently meant to be the comic relief in the film ( as nicholson was in batman ) , especially when contrasted with the sullen spawn , the violator's lines are oftentimes grotesque and unfunny , leaving the audience wishing he would leave .  leguizamo does a satisfactory job in the role , but he is seen far too often in the film .  michael jai white , a relative newcomer to theatrical releases , seems to be an appealing actor , and he handles his role adequately , but we see little of him without various masks on .  more time needed to be spent on white's character before he became spawn for the movie to pull at the heartstrings .  a special note should be made about martin sheen as the over-the-top , obnoxious , evil general wynn .  easily the hammiest performance in the movie , it's hard to imagine how sheen mucked up his role so much ; after all , he played a vietnam assasin brilliantly in the great apocalypse now .  sheen's excessive demeanor do not help the audience accept him as a mastermind villain and comes as a surprise considering his extensive career in film .  many other elements conspire with the disappointing script and abundant special effects to drag spawn down .  mtv-style , jerky , in-your-face editing is one of them .  flames , for example , roll across the screen sometimes to announce a shift in setting .  cogliostro , unlikely wannabe guide for spawn , serves as a poor narrator for the film .  he goofily tells the audience , at one point , that " how much of [spawn's] humanity is left remains to be seen , " as if the audience really cares as one violent sequence leads to another .  the music , finally , assaults the audience as much as the manic violence and offensive dialogue .  loud and obnoxious hard rock fused with drum loops dominate some scenes .  to be fair , however , marilyn manson's " long hard road out of hell " effectively compliments spawn's return to earth , while filter and the crystal method's " ( can't you ) trip like i do " proves a surprisingly fitting theme song .  for as good a comic book as it is , " spawn " did not spawn a good movie .  spawn , instead , suffers from too much pomp and circumstance , and too little plot and character development .  it receives two stars for its technically well-done special effects .  many other films , though , have equal , if not superior , special effects and are much better .  rated pg-13 , spawn seems more violent than many r-rated movies and probably wouldn't be appropriate for the very young . 
pos@ kevin smith is like a big kid .  his humor is that of a sophisticated juvenile's .  he grew up idolizing star wars and loves comic books , having also written a few .  he also has a cult following , mostly composed of teenagers , college students , and smith's own fellow adolescent-minded grownups .  smith is hilarious in person and in writing , but when he tries to be earnest and moralize , that is when he goes wrong .  kevin smith is a better writer than director , and he'll be the first to tell you that .  that might also be part of the reason why his moralizing comes across as so heavy-handed .  great directors show us their theses instead of having the characters sermonize them .  this was true in the overrated chasing amy , and it is true for dogma as well .  that is not to say smith's message is a bad one .  in dogma , smith tells us that problems arise when people believe beyond any doubt that their insight into god and god's desires is superior to anyone else's .  basically , dogmatism is bad .  changing the minds of the dogmatic is virtually impossible , and since the dogmatic believe that they have special insight , they also know what is best for you , whether you like it or not .  this is not exactly a new message in movies ( see inherit the wind ) , but i have no problems with recycling old ones , particularly since dogma's protesters are proving smith's point .  smith's own problem with delivering this message is that he beats us over the head with it like we are reading a dogma for dummies book .  but this is smith's personality , and his simplistic views neglect such adult issues as how does one interpret the bible ( or koran , etc . ) correctly ( or if there even is a correctly ) and how one settles disputes of heretofore dogmatic concerns .  the story concerns abortion clinic worker bethany ( linda fiorentino ) being chosen by voice of god , metatron ( alan rickman ) , to prevent the destruction of the universe by two fallen angels , bartleby ( ben affleck ) and angel of death , loki ( matt damon ) .  along the way , forgotten thirteenth apostle , rufus ( chris rock ) , stripper muse serendipity ( salma hayek ) , and slacker duo jay and silent bob ( jason mewes and kevin smith himself ) come to bethany's aid .  fallen muse , azrael ( jason lee ) , proves to be the behind-the-scenes manipulator for all the chicanery .  the logical but convoluted plot only exists as an excuse for the jokes and to make smith's points , and in itself , has little dramatic momentum .  among the supposedly outrageous claims made by the film is that god is a woman , jesus was black , and the bible was written by a bunch of racist , misogynistic white men .  of course , kevin smith does not necessarily subscribe to these ideas himself .  they are a metaphor for the fears and insecurities of the dogmatic .  smith says as much in his amusing disclaimer that precedes the movie .  when harvey weinstein asked smith to put it into the film before cannes , smith thought it might give validation to protesters' claims that the film was sacrilegious , but then he rethought it and turned the disclaimer into a joke .  the film's humor is uneven .  some parts are very funny as when bethany goes for a fire extinguisher when metatron makes a burning-bush kind of entrance .  but many of the film's jokes just bomb , as in virtually anything involving salma hayek's serendipity .  also , some of the jokes can be seen coming from a mile away .  still , smith keeps the zingers coming at a sufficiently rapid pace .  among the actors , fiorentino and rickman stand out by far .  fiorentino virtually by herself gives the film emotional weight .  damon and affleck are fairly lackluster .  rock and hayek exist in the film pretty much only as comic relief as are mews and smith .  but the latter duo fare much better because jay and silent bob , who recur in all of smith's movies , are much more in line with smith's brand of humor .  bud cort , george carlin , janeane garofalo , guinevere turner , and alanis morissette all make cameo appearances . 
neg@ synopsis : back-up quarterback moxxon becomes starting quarterback midway through his senior year of high school , even though he'd rather read " slaughterhouse five " than the playbook .  evil football coach kilmer throws away moxxon's book , though , while the evil team physician injects painkillers into the players .  in the meantime , moxxon's kid brother forms a cult , and a bubblegum-blond cheerleader smears whip cream on herself to seduce the new star quarterback .  comments : since i usually review horror and science fiction films , i feel a little out of my league discussing this teen football movie .   ( pun intended .  thank you ! )  varsity blues was produced by mtv , and it really shows .  several extended scenes allow for a continual soundtrack of mediocre pop songs meant to appeal to the adolescent male audience this crap was intended for .  the teenagers all have reasons for their melodramatic angst .  the adults all have problems , of course , and , as one-dimensional characters , they are all fanatically obssessed with how their local high school football team performs .  yes , this movie represents high school life in mtv-land .  this is a land where your health teacher is also a part-time stripper , your ice cream store attendant girlfriend wears an egyptian ankh around her neck , your kid brother forms a " cute " cult , your football coach is an uncaring , obssessive madman , and your friends' lives consist of nothing but getting laid and driving around in cop cars naked .  all you , as the main character , want to do , however , is read " slaughterhouse five " and attend brown university in the fall .  well , at least this is a little more realistic than mtv's " the real world . "  varsity blues stars james van der beek , this week's teen tv star making the leap to the big screen .  he plays the hick moxxon adequately , though some of his emotional dialogue will make people chuckle .   ( " you dawn't own mah life ! "  who would want to ? )  jon voight , the stock evil guy in countless other movies , is , surprise , the stock evil guy here .  but is he really evil , or is he a product of society ?  after all , everybody , young and old , in this movie has no life whatsoever and do nothing but obssess over high school football .  maybe the pressures of the 90 screaming fans at the football field drove evil coach kilmer evil .  the film's screenplay never answers this burning question .  at times , iliff's story does show glimmers of touching or humorous scenes , but , before the audience gets their hopes up that there might be something redeeming in this movie , they get trashed with another lengthy party sequence or overwrought football game .  the movie's pacing is slow , and the plot turns are mindnumbingly obvious from start to finish .  i suppose i'm being a little hard on varsity blues .  maybe i'm just a little miffed that i had to pay 3 bucks to see it , even though it was dollar night at the cinema .  something about a request from the studio made the theater charge more money .  i found the film oftentimes ludicrous and boring .  three guys in front of us smuggled beer into the the theater .  i wished i had thought of that .  alcohol , lots of it , may have helped the viewing experience . 
pos@ with a team of 200 graphic artists and animators working on this first film production from game developer squaresoft's square pictures , final fantasy , inspired by the top-selling game franchise , is visually awe-inspiring and groundbreaking .  no doubt , you have never seen anything like this film , and the hyperbolic fanfare surrounding its release is absolutely deserved .  but why does such a tremendous feat of eye candy have to be weighted down with a problematic story , wooden dialogue and generally uncharismatic voice acting ?  obviously , the primary goal of the film is to stun and amaze audiences with extremely sophisticated cgi .  everything you see in the film is rendered in great detail : individual threads in the fabric , individual strands of hair swaying , wrinkles and pimples on skin , incredible water effects .  overall , the expressions and lip movements fairly accurately match the emotions and dialogue ; and the times when they don't sync perfectly really stand out , since the animation is usually so dazzling .  but you won't spend much time dwelling on those gaffes -- as soon as you catch one , the next stellar monster or effect will have you muttering , " wow . . . "  like the series of games , final fantasy's plot and characters have little to do with its predecessors , outside of being born from the same japanese mastermind , hironobu sakaguchi .  it's the year 2065 , and humans are prisoners in caged cities of their own making that guard them from an outside world now overrun with deadly alien " phantoms . "  whenever a human comes in contact with the ghostly visitors , the often-invisible beings pass through the body and wrench out its soul ( for some unexplainable reason ) .  while many humans agree with a plan by monomaniacal general hein ( james woods ) to blast the aliens with a " zeus cannon , " dr . aki ross ( ming-na ) and dr . sid ( donald sutherland ) plan to build a " wave " using eight collected " spirits " to counteract the phantoms and kill them off .  while the images serve the sci-fi aspect of the film well , the storytelling doesn't .  it's unfortunate , because the plot seems so intricately thought out .  perhaps it was far too complex and enormous to be entirely incorporated into the script .  some could blame this weakness on the fact that it was a japanese concept translated to english , except two americans wrote the screenplay .  nevertheless , the end result is an elaborate story complicated by confusing holes .  why do these aliens feed on souls ?  if they can pass through bodies and ships , how can humans hurt them with guns ?  what is so special about the " spirits " that they would create a force strong enough to destroy the aliens ?  worse yet , the dialogue is scripted to be either like a science-heavy star trek episode , an installment of die hard , or a sappy love story , depending on who's doing the talking .  for the most part , it's bearable considering the genre , but tedious speeches and cheesy lines don't do anything to help the actors and can get annoying in the longer scenes .  the only exception is steve buscemi as pilot neil fleming , who always has great cracks during tense moments .  but , when the lights come up and the credits roll , you're more likely to be remarking on how fantastic the film looked .  there's no question that the roughly 33 million people who have bought at least one final fantasy game will be eager to see this movie , and so should anyone who enjoys being floored by the best cg animation ever put to film .  you'd be living in a fantasy world of your own if you expected much more . 
neg@ if you're the kind of person who goes to see movies just because you long for some of that overpriced theatre popcorn ( butter optional ) , then this is the movie for you !  indeed , this has got to be either one of the most unimaginative rip-offs of other recent action movies , or an incredibly unfunny spoof of them .  it's difficult to fathom such insipidness unless you actually watch this film .  but at least we're warned very quickly that we may regret our ticket purchase , giving us an opportunity to sneak on out and into the adjacent show .  what are the four ingredients of a really bad action movie ?  first , the movie gives us an introductory premise .  huge caverns exist deep beneath the ocean floor , and in this area , many ships have disappeared .  oooh . . . scary !  secondly , a cheesy soundtrack tries to connote a tone of mystery , but only succeeds in drowning our ears with an abrasive musical score .  third , the main character is a mercenary that delivers goods without asking about the contents of his cargo ( treat williams ) .  he operates a sophisticated military-style pt boat and every word that comes out of his mouth is awash in comical flippancy .  finally , in the cargo hold , we see those that hired him .  they are also mercenaries that have tough-looking haircuts , talk with accents , and try to show how macho they are .  during their trip across the stormy sea , their boat suffers an incident and requires repairs .  spotting a cruise ship in the distance , they make their way to the ocean liner and devise a plan to raid the machine shop , take the parts that they need , and then continue on their merry way .  little do they know that this cruise ship has become infested by some kind of ocean monster .  yet , they board the ship armed to the hilt with grenades and machine guns that can kill dozens in a matter of seconds .  this is nothing more than a by-the-book action film .  their realization of the situation that they're in doesn't happen until they are in the bowels of the boat .  those who are dumb enough to stray off on their own will ultimately get killed .  the corridors on the ship are narrow , misty , and provide the kind of atmosphere that all scare-fests must have .  yet , despite the predictable nature of this film , there are some scary " boo " moments .  but most of it is just outright silly .  and this film is unusually gory too .  monsters basically suck off the flesh and spit out skeletal remains .  there is one particularly neat scene where a monster has been cut apart and reveals a victim that is still alive .  he screams horribly as the monster's digestive juices continue to slowly eat him away .  additionally , it borrows heavily from speed2 , alien and a bunch of other recent films .  the mercenaries even run into a lone , surviving passenger ( femke jannsen ) who looks amazingly like sandra bullock .  to be honest , when i left the theatre , i just had to laugh at how witless the film was .  it's moronic fun at best .  so , if you're hankering for a large bucket of popcorn served with a side of silliness , then this might just hit the spot . 
pos@ john cusack is the kind of actor who seems to effortlessly slide into his respective film roles .  so effortlessly that people tend to forget he's there , much in the way people rarely recall many of the great character actors ( anyone who can put the name james rebhorn with that actor's face is invited to treat themselves to a product from one of my sponsors ) .  example : the other day my mother asked me ( the expert , of course ) if there were any movies out worth seeing , never mind that our tastes couldn't be more divergent--- i'll never forget the day she recommended that i go see a night at the roxbury for god sakes , and to be fair she was mightily pissed at me for telling her that go !  was a lot of fun ( which it is ) , so i didn't see this as anything more than a futile attempt at conversation .  i muttered , with a little trepidation , that she might enjoy high fidelity .  she responded with her usual query , " whose in that one ? "  this is a question whose answer that seems to immediately conjure up the kind of movie you went to see .  if the reply is julia roberts you probably assume it was something wispy and light , a sylvester stallone movie and you picture a bloodbath with few words and much involuntary bicep flexing , and a woody allen movie means hyper articulate white people ( usually of the jewish faith ) fretting about in some upper east side palace .  anyway , when i answered " john cusack " , she replied with a rather stunned " who ? " , as if it was unreasonable for her to know whom i was referring to .  now i know for a fact that my mother has seen several cusack movies , most recently being john malkovich and pushing tin , but i suppose it's understandable that she would not recognize the name , after all , for most , names are tougher than faces .  i showed her a picture of cusack's mug in the paper hoping for an " oh - him , yes he's quite good " instead i got a " no - i don't know him " .  at this point i was way beyond frustration into a realm of nose hair yanking anger ( yes , filmic ignorance is all it takes to get me into the nose hair pulling zone ) , till i realized something : i doubt that much of america would recognize cusack's relatively bland visage , or even the name which is rather bland compared to the coolness of a brad pitt or tom cruise , one-syllable names that glide off the tongue with the velocity of a speeding car .  cu-sack . cu-sack - no , not quite as cool .  i'm sure that twenty years from now cusack will forever be referred to as " the guy from ( add in the cusack film of your choice ) " .  he's not a brand name , and his movies usually aren't big moneymakers , but in his own unassuming way he's kind of a genius .  with his pleasant , common man looks , and charming semi-articulate blatherings he has become one of the most likeable romantic leading men of the 90's .  from the sure thing to say anything cusack has merged the talents of early tom hanks and early jack lemmon .  despite the fact that nearly every character he plays is a variation of the character before it ( the schlumpy every man ) , he's a constantly enjoyable screen persona , like albert brooks or woody allen .  and he knows how to chose scripts , while the stephan baldwin's and val kilmer's seem to put them selves in everything ( the former actually had the insight to follow up oscar winner usual suspects with a pauly shore vehicle , and judging from his latest projects it looks like he still has yet to fire his agent ) , cusack generally picks rewarding projects ( save for the unwatchable hot pursuit , a 1988 film also featuring a young ben stiller ) .  high fidelity is his second collaboration with hit or miss english director stephan fears ( the grifters , the hi-lo country ) , and it's a hit .  it was also co-written by cusack , and some of his collaborators on the terrific comedy , grosse point blank .  it's not quite as entertaining or as funny as that film , but as it progresses in its meandering fashion , the movie cast something of a spell over me .  high fidelity begins as a hipster ode to the non-committal rob , a vinyl record store owner , who opens the film by breaking down the fourth wall with much abandon and educating us in his " top 5 break ups list " .  this is something cusack does the entire film a la ferris bueller's day off .  at first the talking-directly-into-the-camera-schtick had me vaguely annoyed , mostly because it reminded me so much of the film body shots which used a similar conceit , but it began to grow on me due almost entirely to cusack's witty delivery .  he's the kind of guy we don't mind talking directly to us .  gradually the film settles into a shampoo-like tragi-comic character study , of a guy who must confront himself and his personal failures in order to figure out the true person he is ( yes it's all very existential ) .  though that plot-line is mostly enjoyable , the thing i liked the most about the film is how much pleasure it offers in introducing us to minor characters , all of whom ( now this is really something ) are terrific enough to warrant their own films .  the best of which is jack black ( of the very funny show tenacious d , a program that sadly went the way of bruce willis' hair ? ? ? unfortunately that annoying smirk remains ) , an ardent record store employee who bullies customers into buying exactly what he wants them to buy .  he's the kind of guy i'm sure we've all met before , a blowhard who thinks he's always right and will do anything in his power ( be it yell , argue , insult ) to hoist his opinion onto others .  but i like this guy , because of how black plays him .  the actor is portly with a round baby face and crazy eyes , but despite his size he leaps to and fro like a manic speed freak ( which might be a bit of a redundant description , seeing as how all the speed freaks i know are manic ) .  he's the kind of supporting character who would be impossibly annoying comic relief in most other films .   ( look at what that hack jan de bont did to poor phillip seymour hoffman in twister ) .  but fears and black never let that happen .  the character , for all his shucking and jiving is steeped in reality .  he's over the top , but in a way we can all probably relate to .  catherine zeta-jones , in her brief role , gives a vivid portrayal of a women completely enamored with her own " charm " .  tim robbins registers in an even tinier part as a new age-type , a character played entirely for cartoon yuks , but still manages to work its desired comic effect .  the one exception in the acting department is a bit of a doozy , the main love interest played by danish actress iben hjejle ( mifune ) , who completely obliterates any trace of a danish accent , replacing it with a stilted american phonation .  i give her kudos for attempting such a contradictory role , but instead of being likeable , she comes across as rather robotic , and as such it's hard to see why cusack's character would be so obsessed with her especially when he has a beautiful , intelligent writer ( natasha gregson wagner ) potentially waiting in the wings .  this reminded me of say anything , where the charming cusack was paired with the charmless ione skye , and in midnight in the garden of good and evil where the poor bastard had to put up with alison eastwood ( whose unbelievably more wooden then father , clint for those " special people " whose wheels turn a little slower ) .  in fact cusack is rarely paired up with a personality that matches his , though i'd bet that if laura and natasha switched roles , the result would be more effective .  high fidelity works almost entirely on the strength of its characters and performances .  fears' direction is somewhat stilted , and the script is sometimes a little too ( and this is a word i'm beginning to hate to use but alas i must ) quirky for its own good ( i think i'll blame that on scott rosenberg , who judging from what he did with beautiful girls , con air , and things to do in denver while your dead , has his fingerprints all over the most irritating bits of this movie ) .  but cusack really does deserve an award , for being so damn ? ? ? cusackian .  i'm afraid that his talents are so understated that he may have to wait till his hip needs replacing to be offered such an award worthy of his considerable talent .  his character , rob ( whose sort of like an older , more bitter lloyd from say anything ) is funny and tragic without being pathetic , and that cusack can do all this , and still not imprint himself onto the minds of most audiences , is something of an achievement . 
neg@ i'm really starting to wonder about alicia silverstone .  sure , she is one of the most beautiful creatures on god's green earth ( second only to that movie critic at large guy ) , but when it comes to choosing what movies she stars in , she always strikes out .  the crush was a slow-moving , predictable piece of fluff .  hideaway was a horrific novel adaptation alicia had only a minor role in .  clueless was an annoying , unfunny waste of time .  and people have e-mailed me too , saying clueless is a good movie and that i'm the only one who doesn't like it .  one girl said if i'd seen the movie with " an open mind , " i would have enjoyed it .  nothing could be further from the truth .  i went into the theater expecting to love the movie .  the preview looked good and of course i'm crazymadinlove with alicia , but the movie was a bunch of bad jokes coming from whiny , unlikable characters .  almost everyone i saw the movie with felt the same way .  when we were walking out of the theater , one guy ( and it wasn't me ) yelled out , " that was the worst f$&#in' movie i've ever seen " and the rest of us had to laugh in agreement .  so last night i walked into the video store and saw alicia's pretty face on the cover of some made-for-video thriller called the babysitter .  i knew it would be bad but some inner compulsion i'll probably never understand made me rent it anyway .  what i got was 90 minutes of regret--the worst alicia silverstone movie ever .  and you already know from the last paragraph what the competition is like .  where to begin in criticizing this movie ?  the plot is a thin shred that moves slower than a glacier , the writing could have been done ( and for all we know it was ) by a ten year old , alicia is the star and she's still wasted in a movie that has no appeal whatsoever .  there is zero humor , zero suspense , zero drama and zero action , until the last ten minutes , when the story is needlessly and pointlessly concluded with a violent sequence .  zero plus zero plus zero plus zero equals zero .  so why does this movie get one star out of me ?  well , alicia spends twenty minutes of the movie in the bathtub .  and if it wasn't bubble bath , the babysitter would have instantly joined the ranks of our other four- star features , but you settle for what you can get .  alicia plays a babysitter who's spending friday night looking after two kids whose parents are out getting drunk at a cocktail party .  and of course anyone as beautiful as alicia automatically spends their friday nights at home ( at least that movie critic at large guy does ) .  as the movie trods along , we discover she's not only the mostly-silent star of the movie but also the object of every male character's fantasies ( and probably every male viewer's too ) .  the drunken father thinks she's just the thing to recapture his lost youth , her boyfriend lets his imagination run wild while spying on alicia from outside , even the prepubescent boy looks in on alicia through the bathroom keyhole while she's taking her bubble bath .  they even throw in the middle aged wife's fantasies about a male counterpart at the party .  not that any of us asked or ever even thought about seeing this 200+ pound woman in a black silk teddy .  at least none of the sex fanatasies ever leave the realm of the pg-rated .  in fact , i could imagine the babysitter becoming a cinemax late-night staple if not for the fact that there's absolutely no nudity in it .  so you can't call it a sex flick .  i've already pointed out that it can't fall under drama , comedy , thriller or action , so what do you classify the babysitter as ?  bad . 
pos@ upon taking a seat at the theater , and surveying the crowd , i soon realized that i was the only person under forty in the premises .  i'm twenty-two , but have been accused of looking sixteen .  yet as the film began , any consciousness of setting shifted to the home of five close-knit , yet troubled sisters .  director pat o'connor ( inventing the abbots , circle of friends ) weaves a quiet yet affecting tale of loss , need , and the bonds between five sisters .  the family is ruled by kate ( meryl streep ) , an unconsciously strict schoolteacher , who is completely conscious of the deterioration of her family .  there is very little background given to the viewer , as we are thrust into a tense but loving home .  squabbles take place one after the other , caused by years and years of history .  perhaps one of the best things about this film , is its naturalness .  no situation is over-wrought , and characters react as real people do , to real problems .  this probably is a result of the film being from a stage play .  the play was in turn is based on a time in the life of the playwright .  what seems to be an underlying theme are the pagan rituals and dances of peoples , both in lughnasa and africa .  in fact , dance seems to be the glue that holds the family together and most expressively shows their closeness .  legs tap , and bodies sway even in the midst of impending disaster .  only after the music stops , and the characters stand breathing heavily do we sense any trouble .  in the quiet after the music we muse that it's sad that music has to cease , and families falter .  the movie is framed by a scene of michael mundy , the narrator of the movie , as a young child flying a kite .  he trips over a bump and loses hold of his string , and the kite floats off farther into the distance .  drawn on the white diamond of the kite is a face that looks at once pained , and at another glance mischievous .  the mundy family itself follows a similar fate to that of the kite , and kate's hold of the family isn't strong enough to hold off the winds of change .  as michael stands , staring at his kite fly away , we hear the adult michael , looking back at the season that his world changed forever .  the movie is not overpowering , but it gives us a beautiful window into the life , love , and trouble of a household of lonely women .  note : this is the first movie review i've ever written , any responses on it would be greatly appreciated .   : ) 
neg@ 'bicentennial man' is a family film without any external motive with the exception of providing the minimum dose of entertainment .  chris columbus , the director who gave you " mrs . doubtfire " , plays on sentimental strings and mushy dialogue to make his point .  based on the short story by isaac asimov , it is supposed to be a science fiction story about a robot who wants to be human , which as you can imagine is very difficult .  starting in a not too distant future the film concentrates on a wealthy family that buys an android to help them with the house and children .  soon this robot , called andrew ( robin williams ) shows abilities that makes his owner mr . martin ( sam neill ) very curious .  andrew is interested in art and music , he " enjoys " making clocks , which clearly shows that he has genuine emotions .  it shows out that because of a small failure in the " electrical circuits " and " positronic brain " andrew has accidentally gained a soul .  this makes him unique and his evil creators worried .  then mr . martin decides to teach andrew all the things he wasn't programmed to do .  soon andrew wants to leave the house in pursuit of freedom , destiny and love .  this film can be described as a disney version of blade runner , a film that still shines as the biggest gem in the crown of science fiction .  ever since that film , the subject of humanity still stands as one big controversy .  what makes us human ?  the thoughts ?  the emotions ?  is it possible to become human ?  at what point can we say to a robot " now you are one of us " ?  these are very tough questions that require a serious and thurral approach .  it is obvious that columbus didn't take them very seriously .  when you think about it , this film is not really meditating on the question " when is a robot no longer a machine , but a human being ? " , but tells a story about racial discrimination and lack of understanding .  andrew is so complex and emotional from the very beginning that the audience immediately accepts him as a human being , and only the society has troubles with it .  in other words , it is as far from reality as from the academy awards .  further more , there are other annoying problems .  to this day no serious filmmaker has dared to speculate about the future in more than 50 years from now .  this has not been done for obvious reasons , because the filmmakers are well aware of the fact that they lack the knowledge and imagination to perform such a difficult task .  columbus is the first to have crossed that line .  the result is , as you might imagine , primitive , unrealistic and incredibly disappointing effort .  the world is simply frozen in time .  neither the society , fashion , culture or values have changed over 200 years .  mom is still working at the kitchen , doing the dishes .  when you think back to the late 17th century and then compare it to the world we live in today , you'll see a slightly bigger difference .  i am not saying that everything should change .  it is unlikely that the human rights will change , but it's even more unlikely that there will not be any progress in science , technology and fashion .  i suppose it's possible to watch this as a some sort of bizarre fairytale , but it's really hard .  robin williams is hidden behind c and speaking in a robotic way .  as always he does a decent job , as does sam neill .  but it doesn't really matter .  it is the sentimentality and length that turns this picture into a tiresome experience .  pretty much like last year's " meet joe black " , this is a primitive and unresolved story which is presented with a splendor and professionalism that it doesn't deserve .  great actors and a talented crew have worked hard to achieve something that will be instantly forgotten .  when isaac asimov wrote this story , the future seemed far away and magical .  everything seemed possible .  now is the future of asimov's time , and we know that it is not as magical and perfect as it seemed a long time ago .  for the same reasons that the young generation of today can not be amazed by julius verne's " 20 000 leagues under the sea " , so can't we accept this story as a potential reality .  let us hope that next year's " a . i . "  will be more rewarding . 
pos@ aliens ! ! well , that is what this movie is about .  computer generated aliens .  ok , the movie is not just about computer generated aliens .  it's about computer generated aliens and a secret organization known as mib .  if one wasn't green and running around the other would not exist as it's known .  the computer graphics in this movie are spectacular , they make you want to believe that aliens like the ones depicted exits .  since seeing this movie i have to agree concede that denis rodman is an alien , he simply has to be .  well , in all seriousness the aliens created here are not only of the monster variety but are also of the soft , squishy and cuddly kind .  just adds something of a lighter note to the movie where it could have become very dark .  along with aliens comes the humor and in a pretty decent way .  j , well soon to be j , a smart ass cop ( played by will smith ) runs down what he thinks is a would-be villain and gets some attention from the mib and k in particular .  k aims to recruit our poor j , but that is not the whole point of this movie .  the main duty of the mib is to police the extra terrestrials on earth who have chosen it as a home or a refuge .  that's also the main point of this movie : protect the earth from the scum of the galaxy .  some of the scum from space is awfully bad and just down right nasty .  color commentary abounds when forced to deal with alien scum and none other than will smith and tommy lee jones are there to deliver the punch .  the dialogue is witty to say the least .  this wittiness lets the movie flow well from scene to scene developing the characters to the extent needed for this movie .  tommy lee jones ( as k ) and will smith ( as j ) provide both the action and the comedy beautifully .  the characters they play don't seem to be wrong in any way nor does their performance as them .  i would have to say that k is more amusing than j , but what's one without the other .  both roles complemented each other very well and the script seemed to be written for these two actors .  the story also goes deep enough to provide a proper background so the audience is not totally clueless .  altogether good performances were put in by all the cast and the director blended everything marvelously with the necessary special effects to create a good movie .  a movie well worth seeing if you are up for some lighthearted and witty humor .  as most movies have their good things they also have their bad things .  the character development in this movie was not all that grand because it didn't need to be .  but if there was more character development and if there was some development of the alien characters that might have added quite considerable to the movie .  especially the evil alien , he did need some work .  though this could have been worked on , the movie was what it proposed to be a rather shallow and witty comedy .  that was achieved rather well , with some interesting commentary and observations .  a movie worth a view , but keep in mind what the movie is and if you are not fond of will smith's form of humor then i wouldn't go .  originally written after original release .  totally rewritten december 26 , 1997 
neg@ blatantly borrowing elements from 1993's " like water for chocolate " and 1991's " the butcher's wife , " " simply irresistible " attempts to be a whimsical romantic comedy but , more often than not , comes off as laughable , leaving you to wonder why rising star sarah michelle gellar ( t . v . 's " buffy , the vampire slayer " ) would choose such an obviously inept film project to waste her time on .  things get off to a bad start right from the onset as amanda ( sarah michelle gellar ) , a young woman who runs her late family's struggling new york restaurant , runs into a mystery man who forces a bushel of crabs on her and then vansihes into thin air .  while out shopping , she also meets tom ( sean patrick flanery ) , a charming , handsome man , who happens to be planning a ritzy restaurant for the department store he works for , and later when he decides to drop by her dive , called southern cross , for lunch , she somehow makes a delicious crab dish for him , even though she is known to not be a very good chef .  suddenly , amanda finds her restaurant , on the edge of foreclosure , rejuvenate to life as customer begin to swarm for her food , which strangely causes everyone immediate jubilation when it hits their mouths .  are amanda and tom destined to be together ?  and is it not just because of the magical food , but because they really , truly like each other ?  and what exactly is going on with the food she is making ?  does it have anything to do with that pesky crab she got that sits on the shelf in the kitchen somehow assisting her in her food preparation ?   " simply irresistible " is a ridiculous and just plain goofy romantic fantasy that's as flimsy as a slice of bologna .  it takes one joke---that people who eat the food are taken aback by it in most unusual ways---and recycles it over and over again until the film has reached an appropriate running time of 95 minutes .  add in a music montage every ten minutes ( these are actually the best scenes in the movie , which certainly tells you something about the film itself ) , and what you've got is an utterly empty , if not necessarily boring , excursion .  the cast of " simply irresistible " is fairly good , but it is the supporting characters who are the most interesting .  patricia clarkson ( 1998's " high art , " in which she played a drugged-out lesbian ) is a standout as tom's colleague , and is thankfully given a few funny lines of dialogue .  also of note is larry gilliard jr . , as amanda's cooking assistant and buddy , who is allowed to create a seemingly full character out of only a handful of scenes .  of the main stars , sarah michelle gellar is fine , but really does often look like she's struggling through the unmistakably clumsy material , and if sean patrick flanery plans on keeping a film career in the future , he has certainly got to pick better projects than this .  the bottom line is that " simply irresistible " is the exact opposite of its deprophesized title , and when the movie got to the point where the characters began to float in mid-air ( an unamusing plot device that was repeated in the stupid last scene ) , my mind checked out from the characters and the romance .  when i think about it in hindsight , i should have checked out in the very first scene , where the point of the action was for gellar to crawl under tables looking for a runaway mechanical crab .  now , that certainly is what i'd call magical ! 
pos@ [note that followups are directed to rec . arts . movies . current-films and rec . arts . movies . startrek . current  only , not to rec . arts . sf . movies .  -moderator]  star trek : first contact a film review by michael dequina copyright 1996 michael dequina  star trek : first contact ( pg-13 ) anyone familiar with the series of star trek movies knows of the " even-odd pattern " --the even-numbered installments of the series are good while the odd-numbered ones are , well , not-so-good .  the pattern continues with the new star trek : first contact , an energetic sci-fi adventure that ( coincidentally ? ) is the eighth entry in the hugely popular series .  in this first trek feature to feature only cast members from the late star trek : the next generation television series , captain jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) and the rest of the 24th-century crew of the starship enterprise--commander will riker ( jonathan frakes , who also directed ) , android lt . cmdr .  data ( brent spiner ) , lt . cmdr .  geordi laforge ( levar burton ) , lt . cmdr .  worf ( michael dorn ) , dr . beverly crusher ( gates mcfadden ) , and counselor deanna troi ( marina sirtis ) --travel back to 21st-century earth while doing battle with the borg , a race of cybernetic beings that share a collective mind with the borg queen ( alice krige ) .  the borg intend to alter history and assimilate all of humankind into their race--starting with the earth-orbiting crew of the enterprise and a 21st century stowaway ( alfre woodard ) .  this is an interesting plotline that is sure to mesmerize trekkers everywhere and engage everyone else , but , unfortunately , it only makes up the star trek half of the script by brannon braga and ronald d . moore .  the other half of the title--first contact--refers to a subplot that takes place on 21st-century earth , where riker , troi , and laforge meet legendary scientist zephram cochran ( james cromwell ) , who is about to embark on the first warp speed flight in human history , which directly leads to the first contact with extraterrestrials .  while this story does tie into the main plot and pays off interestingly in the end , it is nowhere near as involving or exciting as the borg battles on the enterprise .  not helping matters is the tiresome cochran character , an eccentric whose drunken schtick starts out funny but becomes too one-note after a while .  in the end , though , the first contact subplot doesn't detract from the enjoyment of the film as a whole .  the story is typical sci-fi fantasy , but the conviction of the cast--most notably the always-phenomenal stewart--makes you believe and care .  frakes , making his feature directorial debut , keeps the action swiftly rolling along and delivers the action goods , even upping the violence a notch ( this is the first trek film to bear a pg-13 rating ) to greater effect .  st : fc has a bigger budget than the last trek outing , the middling star trek generations , and it definitely shows on screen--the production design and especially visual and makeup effects are outstanding ( in particular those involving the borg queen ) .  braga and moore's mostly sharp script will please both trek devotees and the rest ; the references to the borg storyline in the tv series , the continuity with the previous film ( e . g .  the ongoing saga of data's emotion chip ) , and a fleeting star trek : voyager crossover will make trekkers squeal with delight , but such points are made easily accessible to those less familiar to the trek mythos .  paramount was reportedly worried about the staying power of its trek franchise with the next generation cast now carrying the helm .  based on the entertaining success that is star trek : first contact , i'd say the studio has nothing to worry about ( at least not until this cast retires and the crew of the wan star trek : deep space nine takes over . . . ) . 
neg@ _dirty_work_ has a premise of deliciously mean-spirited potential .  mitch weaver ( norm macdonald ) and his lifelong best friend sam mckenna ( artie lange ) are losers in life : they were constantly picked on in school , and now they cannot hold regular jobs .  but as the trailer goes , " there is one thing mitch weaver is good at--revenge . "  so he and sam parlay their unmatched skill in getting-even schemes into a marketable revenge-for-hire business called dirty work inc .  this should be the groundwork for a wonderfully wicked black comedy , but for a film called _dirty_work_ , what ensues is rather clean of spirit .  in fact , what makes mitch and sam start up their business is not a giddy desire to give bullies a taste of their own medicine , but rather a more sappy reason : sam's father ( jack warden ) needs a heart transplant , and in order for him to move at the top of the recipient list , his compulsively betting doctor ( chevy chase ) asks the guys for $50 , 000 to pay off his bookie .  so for all the scheming that goes on , beneath every underhanded plot is--gasp ! --a  heart , which undercuts the inherent nastiness of the premise .  not that there isn't a lot of nastiness on display--there is , but of a different sort .  there are frequent sexual references , most prominently in the form of prostitutes and sam's impotent father's ongoing lust for them .  and for a film rated pg-13 , director bob saget ( yes , that bob saget , of _full_house_ and _america's_funniest_home_videos_ fame ) and writers frank sebastiano , fred wolf , and macdonald himself , stretch the boundaries of good taste rather far--arguably a bit too much so ( was not one , but two separate instances of sodomy between animals really necessary ? ) .  but the issue , of course , is not so much of taste as it is humor--as in , is it funny or not ?  the answer is a resounding no .  it's not that macdonald isn't a funny guy .  he was one of the more consistently funny performers on _saturday_night_live_ before his much-talked-about firing , and his dry brand of smartass wit translates well to the big screen ; it also doesn't hurt that he's a natural , likable screen presence .  he is able to give some of his lines a nice acid touch , but , for the most part , the oneliners , as written , are flat , and the broad slapstick gags just don't work ( one running gag has him being literally tossed out of buildings--a real riot ) .  still , macdonald's few shining moments are just about the only moments the film has .  the late chris farley , as hysterical as he ever was , is amusing in a cameo role , but , as a whole , the supporting players are amateurish and seemingly free from any directorial guidance .  saget tries to juice up the proceedings with kitschy cameos by gary coleman , adam sandler , and john goodman , but their minimal novelty value cannot prevent _dirty_work_ from sputtering to the end of its brief 81-minute running time .  the film closes on a sad note of desperation , an indulgent reel of outtakes from which only those involved in the production would derive any amusement .  come to think of it , i cannot imagine anyone but those involved in the production to find much amusement in the entirety of _dirty_work_ . 
pos@ roberto benigni is a clown in the tradition of chaplin and keaton .  this italian film star , best known in the united states for the poorly received son of the pink panther , has done the near impossible by creating a comic fable about the holocaust .  but benigni's life is beautiful ( la vita e bella ) is not so much a story of the holocaust as it uses that monstrous outrage against humanity as a backdrop to tell a story of familial love , devotion and sacrifice .  the movie starts out as a typical slapstick farce with benigni's guido arriving in the small tuscan town of arezzo in 1938 to fulfill his dream of owning a bookstore .  like many of the slapstick clowns who preceded him , most notably the almost-forgotten harry langdon , benigni's guido has a childlike innocence .  he ignores the growing anti-semitism of the fascist government .  instead , guido ardently falls in love and persues dora , a local school teacher who already is engaged to a local fascist official .  in benigni's tightly wound script this is the same fascist official with whom guido had an earlier unfortunate - yet slapstick - encounter .  guido wins dora .  they marry .  fast forward about five years .  guido , dora , and their 5-year-old son , giosue ? ( giorgio cantarini ) are a happy family .  guido has finally fulfilled his dream of opening a bookstore .  but racial and anti-semitic tensions are on the rise in italy , and guido has determined to do his best to shield his son from these harsh realities .  the task becomes even the more difficult when the family is deported to a concentration camp .  here , guido must use all his skill and imagination not only to shield his son , but to keep him from being exterminated .  it is at this juncture in life is beautiful may tend to offend those whom the holocaust has touched .  for the scenes in the concentration camp lack the horror , the pain , the unimaginable suffering of a schindler's list .  true , many italian jews were not deported until the war was nearly over , and most were not sent to the death camps , but to work camps where they were used as slave labor .  unlike steven spielberg , benigni is not out to tell the story of the holocaust .  his story is about family and the lengths a parent will go to protect a child .  for guido , to save his son , transforms the entire experience into an elaborate game .  giosue ? must follow the rules without question to amass 1 , 000 points .  the winner takes home a tank .  therefore , guido tells him , he must remain hidden in the barracks .  he cannot make a sound nor allow the guards to see him .  guido explains this during a hilarious sequence when a german guard barks the camp instructions to the newly arrived inmates .  guido , lying that he understands german and can translate for his fellow prisoners , instead lays down the rules for his son to allow him a chance to survive .  throughout their imprisonment , guido's quick thinking continually keeps his son from harm's way .  ultimately , the allies rescue the camp .  in a poignant scene , giosue ? comes out of hiding just as an american tank rolls into the compound .  the boy goes wide-eyed with wonderment and delight , thinking he has won the game .  the price for his victory is most high .  benigni has succeeded in using the blackest moment in human history to prove that even in hell , a ray of hope and salvation can penetrate the darkness .  life is beautiful is a fantasy , a fable .  it is not to be taken as a record of the holocaust .  those who object to it are missing its point .  and that is simply where there is hope , where there is life and where there is love , the spark of humanity will never be extinguished .  committed to lifelong learning through effective communication 
neg@ whether or not i would be considered a trekker probably depends on whom you would ask .  i have been a fan of both the original series and its recently retired follow-up , as well as the even- numbered entries in the film series .  however , i have never been one of those folks who store away trek minutiae and get into debates over the relative merits of spock vs . data .  somewhere along the line , the " star trek " film series began to seem more and more directed at those in the latter category , and star trek : generations may be the natural conclusion of this direction .  its production values may be high , but the writing is frequently appalling , and instead of a script has a collection of references , in-jokes and ill-defined characters .  generations opens in the late 23rd century , where members of the original enterprise crew , including captain james t . kirk ( william shatner ) , are present for the christening of the latest ship to bear that name .  no sooner is it out on its maiden voyage than a distress signal brings them to the nexus , a mysterious ribbon of energy .  among those rescued from the nexus is long-lived alien dr . soran ( malcolm mcdowell ) , but he is none-too-pleased at being back in the real world .  seventy-eight years later , soran is still trying to get back to the nexus , and again encounters an enterprise , this one led by captain jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) .  soran's plan involves destroying a star with an inhabited planet , and the only hope for saving 230 million people is the historic meeting of two enterprise captains .  i don't think it is an insult to fans of " star trek " to suggest that to a certain extent , the particulars of a plot are not really the most important elements in a " trek " film .  it's about a chance to visit with old friends , and if they are involved in a truly interesting story it can be considered gravy .  but even that interpretation assumes that characterization has to be consistent , and in generations that just doesn't happen .  data ( brent spiner ) is particularly victimized by this sloppy writing .  in the film's major sub-plot , data decides to use a chip which will give him human emotions , a chip he has had in his possession for over a year .  what is his motivation for taking this drastic and perhaps dangerous step ?  he doesn't get a joke .  once the chip is in place , spiner gets to have a lot of fun with data's new emotions , but the point is that he's no longer the data we know .  if the rest of the " next generation " cast fares any better , it's only because they're on the screen so little that they're simply window dressing .  but then again , this story isn't really about the new crew .  it's about kirk and picard , the cowboy and the politician , sharing the screen .  the huge surprise is that william shatner blows patrick stewart away .  perhaps because he knows this is his last go-round in the part that made him a legend , shatner looks like he's having the time of his life ; stewart , on the other hand , borders on the deferrential , and is saddled with the same lackluster motivations as everyone else in the cast .  stewart's edginess is indicative of what may be a very bad sign for paramount's hopes to turn the new cast into the same kind of franchise the original cast was : these are clearly the not ready for big screen players .  by contrast , the prologue which features scotty ( james doohan ) and chekhov ( walter koenig ) is the highlight of the film .  these characters have become part of the popular mythology , and when they take over the enterprise in a moment of distress , it's a moment of high energy .  only thirty years of history can create a moment like that , and that's time this new crew doesn't have .  it certainly doesn't help that the plot they are stuck in is so convoluted and badly constructed that you need to leave a trail of bread crumbs to find your way out again .  it's also loaded with little gags all aimed at those who are familiar enough with the series to turn to all their friends in a shared nudge of recognition .  i wonder whether anyone who is coming in cold to the " trek " universe at this point would be anything but baffled and bored by what is going on .  and what a waste of malcolm mcdowell , who could have been a great monomanical villain but should have been given a much more compelling reason for his obsession .  there are plenty of details both scientific and of continuity to pick at , but to do so would be to ignore generations' major flaws .  however , i would like to make one recommendation : seatbelts .  not just for the enterprise crew , although you'd think by the 24th century space travel wouldn't involve rolling around on the floor during a battle .  no , i think the audience might need them more .  this journey is one bumpy ride . 
pos@ one of the sweetest tales to ever be made , it's a wonderful life isn't perfect , but its good natured charm and beautiful performances light up the screen with glorious results .  probably the greatest " feel-good " film of all time , it's a wonderful life aims for the heart , and strikes with a golden arrow .  on christmas eve , george bailey ( stewart ) is being prayed for by many in the small town of bedford falls .  you see , george is in trouble , and he has always helped others who needed it .  this one time , however , god answers his prayers , and sends down the lovable guardian angel clarence ( travers ) to try and save george .  clarence has got his own problems , however .  clarence is an angel without his wings , and each time the bell rings , the wings pass him by .  the bailey case is a way for him to earn those magical wings and become a true angel .  but before clarence can save george , he first has to go through a cliffs notes version of george bailey's life .  we see george sacrificing his hearing to save his brother's life , sacrificing his college education to save the family business , sacrificing his dream of living far away to support his brother , and even sacrificing his life to make sure his brother is happy working somewhere else .  when the bank his family owns is in trouble , george gives away his honeymoon money to make sure the bank isn't sold to the evil mr . potter ( barrymore ) , who wants nothing less than to get the baileys out of bedford falls .  one christmas , potter gets his chance .  uncle billy bailey ( mitchell ) loses $8 , 000 of the bank's money .  without the money , the bank must close down .  george is stuck in a tremendous bind , and contemplates suicide .  clarence , the faithful servant , is there just to pick him up , and to show him what bedford would be like without george .  this is all a lead-in to the very famous last scene , where george finally sees what true happiness is about .  it's a wonderful life does have its faults .  the movie is beginning to feel dated in the details , especially in the treatment of women and men .  the sex roles in the film are weirdly out of place in the 90's , like something out of a revisionist look .  all the men drink too much and slap their wives too much during some portions of the film .  there are , however , endearing moments in all of this .  capra puts in just enough humor mocking the sex roles of the 50's to make the movie remarkably enjoyable .  the story is hackneyed , and the ending feels , well , a little too sugarish .  there's this uneasy feeling of sugar over everything , especially the sequences where george is either in trouble , or helping somebody .  it's a little too nice for my liking , at times .  there is , however , enough humor , enough wit , and enough of jimmy stewart to get the movie through the middle part , which would be the most difficult .  but watching it's a wonderful life is never boring or difficult : it's always interesting , right until the finale , which , for all its sugar , makes delightful sense and is beautifully done .  capra does have his monumental cliches , but the actors relish them and overplay everything to perfection .  donna reed is perfect as the loving , obeidient wife , and lionel barrymore is gloriously grump as mr . potter .  everyone else is magnificent , including bert and ernie ( ward bond and frank faylen ) .  there is a general sense of goodness , as if everyone in the film knows that they are making a great film , and they relish that .  stewart , however , is the king of all of this .  he is sometimes awkward , especially when saying " merry christmas " to all objects , animate or inanimate .  but he is james stewart , and he's lovably delightful throughout the film .  have i complained ?  i shouldn't have .  this is a really good movie .  no , this is a great movie .  better yet , this is a phenomenal movie .  there is a reason classics are invented : to make sure that people will always have great movies to aid them in their quest for living life .  this is one of those films .  it is a " feel-good " movie , something people complain a little too much about .  but capra's reworking of " a christmas carol " is the greatest christmas movie of all time .  there , i've said it .  i have to admit , the first time i saw this , i saw it with my family , including my 11 year old kid sister .  they all loved it .  they loved george , his wife , his troubles , and the beautiful ending .  is it a little too sugar-coated ?  maybe .  no matter .  this is a film that should be watched time and time again , with families around a coffee table , and eggnog on the plate .  it is a film that just makes you feel good about life , family , and hope .  it is the perfect christmas film , flaws and all .  it is frank capra's greatest acheivement , and that really does say a lot .  for about 121 out of 129 minutes , this movie is flawless .  the rest can be excused : no film is perfectly flawless .  i can't get over how much i love this movie , and how much you will , after watching it , digesting it , and sitting with your family , appreciating how special life really is . 
neg@  " love to kill " starts off aimlessly and gets progressively less coherent as time passes .  at the outset , the movie appears to be about tony danza , who's an illegal distributor of guns , trying to establish a relationship with an unsuspecting woman .  danza sets up a double date with her , her sister , and a collegue of his .  everything seems to be going well , until the sister accidentally dies by falling down a set of stairs .  much confusion and mahem ensues , as the death is covered up and other associates of danza's begin to emerge , all after one thing or another .  sound confusing ?  it is .  i think what the filmmakers were trying to do is take the standard crime movie and throw in a little humour and levity .  in some respects , it works .  but the majority of the film is a convoluted and confusing mess .  characters keep popping up with no explanation , demanding money for deals that occur off-screen .  the only aspect of the movie that actually works is the budding relationship between danza and the dead woman's sister .  but so little time is devoted to this part of the story , we never really become too familiar with these characters , and because of this , we don't really care what happens to them .  well , i didn't , at least .  one thing i will give the movie is that it's a complete departure for tony danza .  here's a guy , because of his many sitcom roles , who's ingrained in the consciousness as a nice guy who always does the right thing .  here , he plays a man who's just looking out for himself , and if that means he needs to kill in order to save his own skin , so be it .  i was very impressed by his performance , and within minutes of the start of the film , i had forgotten all about his good-guy persona .  michael madsen is also good as an associate of danza's who spends half the movie buddying up to him and the other half trying to kill him .  like i said , it's not exactly a linear storyline .   " love to kill " should be praised for trying to do something different with the well worn crime genre , but it's just too bad that the story doesn't really add up to much .  the stars deserved better , and so did the audience . 
pos@ after the terminally bleak reservoir dogs and the brutally violent pulp fiction , jackie brown seems like something of a light-hearted departure for quentin tarantino .  it's more of a ho-hum heist story with characters that speak the tarantino language .  luckily , his showcase of actors convert every morsel of possible enjoyment onto the screen , and jackie brown has no trouble entertaining the average viewer .  the story introduces us to a street-wise black woman named jackie brown ( pam grier ) , a flight attendant who smuggles money and drugs from one destination to another .  she works for a bottom-of-the-barrel airline and receives a minimal salary .  but one day , she is picked up by a pair of federal officials ( including michael keaton as the tough-nosed ray nicolet ) , and found with a handsome load of cash and a small bag of smuggled dope .  jackie is working for a weapons dealer named ordell ( samuel l . jackson ) , who pays her bail money but suspects her of tipping off the feds about their operation .  soon jackie and ordell are plotting a way to smuggle $500 , 000 through to them under nicolet's nose , with the help of ordell's oaf of a partner ( robert de niro ) and drugged-out lady friend ( bridget fonda ) .  also entering the picture is a bail-bondsman named max cherry ( robert forster ) , who takes a liking to jackie and agrees at one point to make the situation even more complicated ( how i won't say ) .  the big drop-off is undoubtedly the high point of jackie brown , in which numerous double-crosses take place and many clothing store bags ( filled with cash ) switch hands .  it's unfortunate that tarantino takes his sweet time getting there , and doesn't offer anything extremely compelling while doing so .  there are , as always , amusing exchanges between characters .  the funniest repartee is between de niro and fonda , as he becomes annoyed with her constant bickering while making fun of his iq , or lack thereof .  the most interesting relationship is between max and jackie .  a 56-year old white bail bondsman and a 44-year old black flight attendant with believable chemistry ?  you've got to commend the acting .  jackie brown is a seriously dragged-out exercise enlivened by such fine acting .  the film clocks in at a lengthy 2 hours , 35 minutes .  tarantino's talky style manages to hold your attention heavily , but there are more than a few dramatic lapses and crucial lulls in the storyline .  also , fans of the director should be prepared for a lighter side to appear .  jackie brown has four major shootings , and two of those take place mostly off-screen , so don't be expecting a typical tarantino bloodbath .  you can expect frequent foul language , mostly coming way of ordell , who ( much to the dismay of spike lee ) uses the `n' word as part of his regular vocabulary .  the acting is the glue that holds everything together .  grier , making a sudden comeback from her reign in the 1970's , is more than adequate for the title character .  in fact , she's flat-out great .  another comeback comes from former tv star robert forster , who does a grand job as max cherry , and is perfectly cast in doing so .  michael keaton makes his presence felt , albeit in small but dignified moments , and de niro is ideal in playing the lug-head who goes over the edge .  speaking of that , bridget fonda has relatively little to do as ordell's bikini-clad beach babe , and yet she manages to look fairly occupied .  there's not a single sign of misplaced dialogue or snubbed line throughout the entire movie .  which is a life-saver for mr . tarantino .  the story barely holds together in the meantime , and we merely get a small tremor whenever there should be a defeaning earthquake .  but oh well .  jackie brown manages to be an enjoyable detour from quentin tarantino , even if it is lacking the glaring and original bite of his previous work .  let's just hope that the director hasn't gone soft on us . 
neg@ a movie like mortal kombat : annihilation works ( and must be reviewed on ) multiple levels .  first , there's the rampant usage of randian subtext that pervades the entire movie .  but occasionaly , almost as if making an ironic , self-depreciating remark , the movie tosses in clearly marxist imagery .  no no . . .  just kidding .  had you going there for a moment , didn't i ?  in all seriousness however , and to be fair to the movie , it * is * necessary to provide two viewpoints : that of a movie watcher unfamiliar ( or only marginally familiar ) with the whole mortal kombat phenomenon , and that of a fan of the first movie and/or a fan of the games .  the first movie ( mortal kombat ( 1995 ) ) concerned itself with a martial arts tournament that would decide the fate of earth ( and it's 5 billion inhabitants ) .  the mortals won , and in theory this should have prevented the emperor shao khan from taking over the earth .  unfortunately , shao khan was a poor loser , and the very final scene in mortal kombat showed him arriving anyway , ready to take over the planet , as our heroes assumed a fighting stance .  the first movie was extraordinarily entertaining for those ( like myself ) who are fans of the game .  i'd even go so far as to say that many folks who didn't know about the game probably enjoyed the movie .  the writers and directors knew the limitations of both their cast and of the basic story itself , and they didn't try to overachieve .  there were a lot of really cool fight scenes ( with really cool accompanying music ) , intersperesed with some distracting ( but ultimately non-intrusive ) bits of fluff passing itself off as a plot .  and , as we know , the movie was a smashing success at the box office .  mortal kombat : annihilation picks up precisely where that movie left off , with some introductory exposition to clue in those who may not have seen the first movie .  shao khan has decided that he's going to take over the earth * anyways * , and to hell with some silly rule about mortals winning the tournament .  thereafter follows approximately 85 minutes of film that alternates between being confused , being trite , being silly , and being just plain stupid .  one gets the general impression that the producers of the movie thought " hey , that last movie was such a success that we can get more money and make a * real * movie now . "  too bad they didn't simply stick with the formula from the first movie .  i could write volumes about the things that are wrong with this picture , but here are the high points :   * the acting is truly bad .  sandra hess ( playing the sonya blade character ) is particularly execrable , especially in scenes where she tries to convince us that she loved johnny cage ( a character from the first movie who gets greased at the beginning of this movie ) .   * in one of the worst pieces of mis-casting i think i've * ever * seen , james remar plays raiden , the god of thunder .  in the first movie , christopher lambert played raiden and played his character as though he was in on the joke : a french actor playing a japanese thunder god being revered by chinese mystics .  i generally like it when actors are cast against type ( tim " tiny " lister , jr . being cast as the president of the u . s . in the fifth element , for example ) , and remar has always been one of my favorite " utility " actors but he's so totally wrong for this part that he doesn't even have the luxury of amused self-awareness .   * there are too many characters that are introduced as being potentially important , but then never seen again .   * there are a number of completely meaningless story sidetracks , including a muddled scene where liu kang ( robin shou ) seeks out nightwolf ( litefoot ) , has a mystical hallucination , and then wanders off with jade ( irina pantaeva ) .  for these reasons ( and many others ) , i can only give the movie a 2 . . .   . . . unless you're a huge fan of the games and/or the first movie .  in that case , the following critiques also apply :   * sandra hess , while being an even worse actress than bridgette wilson ( who played sonya blade in the first movie ) , is much more convincing as a fighter .  wilson looked like she was simply mimicing some movements taught to her by the fight choreographer .  hess looks like she actually knows some martial arts , and puts together a much more believable fight scene .   * in the fights , each of the characters does at least * one * thing they do in the game ( and often more ) .  sonya does her " kiss of death , " jax does his " earthquake , " liu kang does his " animality , " and so on .  a big bonus for those of us who were looking for similar moves in the first movie and found them only rarely .   * there aren't as many fight scenes in this movie as there were in the first , because the folks making the movie mistakenly try to hang a more robust plot in between .  silly , silly folks .  and the lamest fight involved two of the women in what turns into a mud-wrestling match .  lame and so obviously sexist even i ( politically incorrect , for the most part ) noticed and remarked upon it .   * the special effects are generally better , except for the final fight scene between the emporer and liu kang in which both perform their " animalities . "  motaro and sheeva are both more convincing and lifelike than goro was in the first movie .  for folks like myself who loved the first movie and enjoy the games , i give this a 5 .  you'll probably like it , but not nearly as much as you liked the first one . 
pos@ `run lola run' , a german import that gained a stellar reputation at the sundance film festival , is a dazzling and kinetic film that deals with the subjects of fate and chance .  for a berserk and retroactive 81 minutes of non-stop movement , we follow a fiery-haired heroine named lola ( franka potente ) as she sprints to save her boyfriend from the clutches of drug dealers .  lola has roughly twenty minutes to somehow retrieve 100 , 000 marks in time to save manni ( moritz bleibtreu ) from being killed by the dealer .  but , in something of a pseudo- `groundhog day' approach , director tom tykwer gives lola three separate chances to best navigate her way toward the goal .  in these trio of episodes , we gradually learn the unique effects of fate , for even if tiny changes are made in lola's journey , the future can be seriously altered .  `run lola run' is an experience like `fight club' or `the matrix' , in that each film takes you through a super-charged wormhole of bending reality in surreal and exciting ways .  in addition , all three movies have a visual style that separates them from the rest of the pack .  `lola' is no exception , with stylish quick-flash camera work and cinematography that serves as scintillating eye candy from the get-go .  tykwer's world is a landscape of mood and color , with brilliant shades of red and pink ( including lola's fiery hair ) used as effective symbolism throughout .  with it's visual style and mind-blowing pace , `run lola run' is one of the more invigorating movies of the year .  even more so when considering the fact it's all stuffed rather nonchalantly into an 81-minute time period .  as a heroine , potente does little more than run wildly through the streets ( as the title suggests ) , but she has a certain flair and charisma .  her exemplary running form made me wonder if she is actually a track star .  meanwhile , bleibtreu does an equally fantastic job of bringing the dopey but passionate manni to life .  both actors perform beyond the call of duty .  the dazzling fun comes from predicting what each episode holds in store for lola , and the outcome is ultimately rewarding - several twists and turns are unique and unexpected .  the other characters lola runs into ( both purposely and inadvertently ) include her banker father ( herbert kraup ) and a friendly security guard ( armin rohde ) , but aside from the two leads , no one has more than a few minutes of screen time .  additional stars that couldn't possibly be ignored are cinematographer frank griebe and editor mathilde bonnefroy , who are both responsible for the film's eye-catching visual elegance .  `run lola run' is subtitled , so be prepared to meet the challenge of reading the lightning-fast dialogue - occasional sections of it are especially fast .  this is only one of the minor chores involved in watching .  the other is the sense that we never get to really recognize who the real people are in this hyperactive situation .  most are just chess pieces in tykwer's elaborate game of visual presentation , and he never really makes a significant move with any .  but , the average viewer is likely to be so absorbed in the action that few will realize the lack of potency in a few elements of the screenplay .  a few petty gripes aside , this film is a wild , exhilarating ride that turns maniacally on its wheel of originality .  most people believe foreign films are mainly boring , talky character studies .  perhaps `run lola run' will recharge their batteries .  not only does this film offer insight into some intriguing questions of fate and destiny , it also delivers a white-knuckle visual rollercoaster ride of overwhelming audacity .  like how the experience must have been for the persistent title character , `run lola run' is exhausting . 
neg@ a backdrop of new year's eve in 1981 would seem to lend itself to a great party movie .  the decor possibilities are endless - disco balls had yet to migrate into the dark corners of the attic , big hair was worth its weight in aquanet , and the louder the fashion , the better the look .  but despite this setting , these details and a soundtrack that includes some 40-plus irresistible hits from the early days of the me decade , something is inherently wrong with " 200 cigarettes . "  a better title for this nostalgic mess would be " 50 missed opportunities . "  what is it that makes this retro-comedy such a downer ?  it's certainly not the cast , which includes enough hot , young talent for several movies .  there's courtney love , cementing her reputation as a serious actress ; christina ricci , hot off her shoulda-been-nominated turn in " the opposite of sex " ; paul rudd , who gets even more appealing with every role ; kate hudson , inheriting some fine acting genes from mom goldie hawn ; and affleck brothers ben and casey , two of the best things about " good will hunting . "  perhaps the question is this : what drew these and other immensely talented actors to such a dreary project ?  maybe it looked good on paper .   " 200 cigarettes " is composed of a series of vignettes , as various characters make their way through new york's festively decorated east village to a holiday bash thrown by a jittery bundle of nerves named monica ( martha plimpton , all dressed up in her best cyndi lauper ) .  among the potential guests are likeable cad kevin ( rudd ) and his best friend lucy ( love ) , busy bickering over his recent break-up , and a clumsy but seemingly charming bartender ( ben affleck ) who opens his mouth only to spew forth bad pick-up lines .  more subplots - _many_ more - dot the big picture , but those listed above are the only ones worth noting in a positive light .  all the other story tangents are as frazzled as a cokehead trying to solve a rubick's cube .  ricci and gaby hoffman grate as two ronkonkoma gals ( the kind that have trouble pronouncing hard consonants ) out to have a high time in the big city .  infamously acerbic comedienne janeane garofalo is wasted in what amounts to a several-scene cameo .  hudson , as a pretty-in-pink klutz recently devirginized by a reprehensible ladies' man ( jay mohr ) , trips , pukes and gets smeared with dog poop .  are we laughing yet ?  the film boils down to a mixture of the good , the bad and the gaudy , with the latter two overtaking the former .  game performances - especially by love , rudd and plimpton - are almost shot down by the bizarrely colorful parts and a constantly roving focus , here a combination that mostly sputters when it should crackle .  too many sidetracks rate as uninteresting and have little payoff until a lengthy final montage where we find out many of the performers served as one night stands for each other .  if this is " 200 cigarettes , " then get me 200 nicotine patches . 
pos@ a thriller set in modern day seattle , that marked marky mark's migration from the " good vibrations " and " calvin klein undie ad " guy , to mark wahlberg , thespian-at-large , and a mighty good one at that .  plot : boy ( wahlberg ) meets girl ( witherspoon ) .  boy likes girl .  girl likes boy .  boy and girl begin dating .  parents of girl aren't crazy about the boy .  girl steps to boy's defense .  family problems occur .  girl learns more about the boy .  boy goes nuts .  fun ensues .  critique : ever wonder what would happen if your better half turned out to be someone other than the person that you had come to cherish and love ?  well , if you ever have , then this film is definitely for you .  it isn't the most original premise in the world , but it is handled pretty well here , and pretty quickly for that matter ( a speedy 90 minutes ) .  i think one of the main reasons this film worked for me is the groundbreaking performance by mark wahlberg ( of boogie nights infamy ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  he completely captured all the goodness , and badness , of the main character of this film , and always kept me wanting to see more and more of him ( his performance scored him a solid nomination from his core target audience , as " best villain " at the 1997 mtv movie awards ) .  the soundtrack is also very effective in this setting , and of course , the slutty performance by alyssa milano is something we could all indulge in ( look for the nice bikini and butt shots . . . if  you're into that kind of thing , that is : ) .  i didn't much care for the father/david relationship which seemed to be a little too contrived , but for the most part , i was really into this movie .  then again , daddy dearest did have one of the coolest lines in the movie when his wife is asking him what the " big deal " was about his daughter dating david .  his reply : " the big deal is that the guy gives me the creeps , and the girl is my daughter . "  good point .  all in all , the movie kicked some fun ass , mindless as it was , and effectively demonstrated every parent's worst nightmare .  mind you , i still can't tell if reese witherspoon is good looking or a douchebag , but hey , life goes on .  and on a personal note , we finally decided to add some taco meat onto our nacho fiesta of usual , and let me tell you all . . . it was a flaming success ! !  another firm recommendation by joe schmoe !  little known facts : director james foley was the man responsible for the critically acclaimed glengarry glenross ( 8/10 ) back in 1992 , at close range ( 7 . 5/10 ) in 1986 , and even directed an episode of twin peaks in 1990 .  mark wahlberg stands 5 " 9 , is born in massachusetts , dropped out of highschool ( later got his ged ) , and was convicted of several minor felonies before starting his career as the lead singer of marky mark and the funky bunch .  his brother is donnie wahlberg of new kids on the block fame .  he is also testing the waters on the acting front . 
neg@ a new entry in the " revisionist history " genre of filmmaking , dick suggests that two not-too-bright teenage girls are the cause of the uncovering of the nation's biggest presidential scandal .  kirsten dunst and michelle williams star betsy and arlene , who while trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene's watergate hotel room , accidentally stumble across g . gordon liddy ( played dead-on by harry shearer ) and the infamous break-in .  when they recognize liddy later on during a white house field trip , they are ushered into a conference room , questioned as to what they know , and leave as official presidential dog walkers .  the girls manage to unwittingly uncover every bit of the watergate scandal while performing their duties , but have no clue as to what they are getting involved with .  when they discover that nixon ( another dead-on performance by dan hedaya , who actually favors nixon slightly , unlike anthony hopkins ) has been abusive to checkers , the presidential dog , thanks to the conversations that he always recorded , they quit and become disillusioned .  during a prank phone call the girls make to woodward and bernstein , events are set into motion that eventually lead to the president's resignation .  this film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward and bernstein arguing with each other on an obvious larry king-type talk show ( featuring a cameo by french stewart ) about revealing the identity of " deep throat " .  from there , we are subjected to bodily function humor and just about every bad " dick " joke one can derive from this type of supposed comedy .  at one point , the girls are having to scream over a high school band playing on the steps of the lincoln memorial .  the band manages to stop right as dunst screams " you have to stop letting dick run your life ! "  much to the horror of everyone standing within earshot .  several other variations on this wordplay surface all throughout the film .  if this movie had been smarter i would have been less likely to fault it's juvenile bathroom humor , but it's not .  the film was apparently made for relatively younger people because every major player in the watergate scandal is introduced and shoved down the audience's throat in the least subtle way possible .  i don't recall oliver stone's nixon having to pander to it's audience , but of course that film wasn't a comedy aimed squarely at a 13-20 year-old film going audience .  the only redeeming thing about this movie is it's remarkable supporting cast .  i wanted to see more of ferrell and mcculloch's woodward and bernstein .  those two characters are the sole basis for my rating .  i wish they had been given more screen time , but unfortunately , they are only relegated to the final half-hour .  their constant bickering and fighting over trying to get the story are a major highlight , especially mcculloch's constant thwarting of ferrell's attempts to gather information from the girls ( who , in the course of the narrative are revealed as deep throat , so named thanks to an ill planned trip to a porno theater by betsy's brother ) .  the other members of the cast are excellent in their portrayals of their particular characters , but are given nothing to work with .  i'd like to see the same cast portray these characters in a script more suited towards their comedic abilities .  as for the two leads , dunst and williams can definitely do better .  they come off as what could best be described as romy and michele : the early years in this particular film , a highly dubious distinction at best .  stay through the first half of the end credits though , to see an interesting scene involving dunst and williams suggestively sucking on lollipops emblazoned with the title of the movie .  an excellent idea marred by poor execution , dick could have been a great movie .  less of the juvenile humor and more of the smarter comedy displayed by the woodward and bernstein scenes , could have made this film a wonderful satire of the nixon presidency as seen through the eyes of two naive fifteen year olds .  as it stands though , dick offers nothing but what filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as " dick and poopie " jokes .  and that , to me , does not make a funny movie .  [pg-13] 
pos@  ( dimension films , " scream 2 " 's distributor , has asked press to say extremely little -- if anything -- about the film's twisty plot .  that's no easy task considering the wit that deserves to be mentioned here , but i will do my best to be vague ( now , there's a first ) . )   " the first one was [good] , but all the rest sucked , " said a cinematically-savvy teen in last winter's wes craven thriller " scream , " her statement referring to the films of the " nightmare on elm street " series but really putting down franchise overkill in general .  the comment certainly carries clout : for every truly great sequel , there appears to be a couple of duds , making one wonder if writers are better off sticking solely with fresh ideas .  but like it or not , along comes " scream 2 . " and believe it or not , it's a doozy -- a slick , sinister , madly subversive good time at the movies , as intent on sending up hollywood's sequel syndrome as much as its prequel poked fun at slasher conventions .   " scream 2 " is definitely that rare movie thing -- a follow-up that can stand along side its original with pride .  it's been two years since a pair of overzealous horror movie fans clad in edvard munch-esque get-ups carved their way through the young populace of woodsboro , california .  those surviving the ordeal have gotten on with their lives .  plucky heroine sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) is a drama student at the midwestern windsor college ; her pop culture-whiz pal randy meeks ( jamie kennedy ) has tagged along .  trash tabloid reporter gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a best-seller based on their ordeal , the basis of which has been turned into a ( very bad ) movie called " stab . "  and dewey riley ( david arquette ) , still suffering from wounds inflicted during " scream , " has left his job as a police officer for a while .  life is tranquil . . .  at least for a while .  several sudden murders bring sidney , randy , gale and dewey together again , but with suspicious eyes cast on each other and most of those in their surroundings -- if these four people learned anything from the past , it's to trust no one .  thus , the possible victim/potential killer list includes said quartet , as well as : derek ( jerry o'connell ) , sidney's new beau ; cici ( sara michelle gellar ) , a chatty sorority gal ; joel ( duane martin ) , gale's cameraman who's not too thrilled with her blood-soaked past ; hallie ( elise neal ) , sidney's sassy roommate ; debbie ( laurie metcalf ) , a local reporter who gives gale some not-too-friendly competition ; and mickey ( timothy olyphant ) , randy's good friend and fellow film student .  cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , the man sidney wrongly accused of her mother's murder in scream , also shows up on campus -- but why ?  like the first scream , craven and screenwriter kevin williamson inaugurate things with a bang .  this time , it's an extended sequence that finds an african-american couple ( jada pinkett and omar epps ) attending a sneak preview of " stab , " making sly references about everything from sandra bullock to the lunchmeat non-roles of blacks in slasher cinema .  before tragedy ensues at the screening , the movie-within-a-movie setup allows for plenty of jokey moments , including a scene from " stab " which turns scream's now-famous drew barrymore prologue on its ear .   ( " b---- , hang up the phone and star-69 his a-- ! "  pinkett yells at the screen . )  it's funny , creepy stuff ( i don't think i'll ever feel safe in a movie theater again ) that effectively foreshadows the ratio of smart scares and spoofy laughs down the road .  another flawless example of this is a riotous cell phone-assault of the killer on randy , dewey and gale in broad daylight ; it builds comedically and ends with genuine terror because of the emotional investment made on these delicious characters .  there are other superb set pieces , but explaining them risks ruining their effect .  there are more players this time around as to provide both a higher number suspects and a staggering body count .  it's something of a trade-in -- the new characters are too large in number to be as fully-developed as the original " scream " gang , but this movie packs in knowing performances ( especially by kennedy and cox ) and more death for your dollar .  it can be argued that , while the original might outclass it by a tad , scream 2 is both scarier and funnier .  it certainly doesn't skimp with shocks -- a major one being the killing of one cast member very near and dear to my heart ( i actually questioned craven and williamson's judgment here , considering how much this person has added to these films ) .  sometimes you wish that more could have been done with stab -- the two scenes we're shown are dead-on -- but for film fans , there are plenty of subtle nods to movies like " the usual suspects , " " aliens " and " the empire strikes back . "  still , " scream 2 " does so many things right , it's petty to quibble .  its penchant for parody is irresistible , discussions of the merits of film sequels and all .  the attractive , solid cast is a definite bonus .  and the denouement ( while not as shocking as " scream " 's ) is priceless ; the film's final revelation incorporates bits of a particular horror film prominently referred to in " scream " with one of the best bad guy motives ever put on paper .  all this and a " scream 3 " is in the works .  knowing the series' tendency for self-reference , perhaps one of its characters will again discuss the concept of sequel justice .  mentioning " scream 2 " 'll help them in their argument . 
neg@ john boorman's " zardoz " is a goofy cinematic debacle so fundamentally misconceived and laughably executed that it takes on a bizarre enjoyment quality all its own .  not since the rampant bumblings of one edward d . wood jr . has a movie been so silly and so serious at the same time .  of course , wood's career can be explained by two things : he had no money and he had no talent .  boorman , on the other hand , cannot court such excuses to explain " zardoz " ( or his follow-up film , the equally awful " exorcist ii : the heretic " ) .  boorman obviously had a sizable budget , a matinee idol movie star ( sean connery ) in the lead role , and although you wouldn't know it from this film , boorman does indeed have talent .  this is the man who made the slick modern masterpiece " deliverance " ( 1972 ) , as well as the autobiographical world war ii drama " hope and glory " ( 1987 ) , the slightly over-conceived arthurian epic " excalibur " ( 1981 ) and the father-son jungle adventure " the emerald forest " ( 1985 ) .  his films all show that boorman is never lacking in imagination , but sometimes that comes at the cost of coherence and taste .  if boorman is anything , he's ambitious , and when he succeeds , it's in grand fashion .  unfortunately , the bigger they are , the harder they fall , and when boorman falls , the resounding impact can be heard for miles around .   " zardoz " is meant to takes its place among the grandest of mystical movies , an obsession of boorman's .  his screenplay tries to elicit the same mythological connotations of the arthurian legends or even " the wizard of oz , " a book which figures into the movie's plot .  but , despite all this reaching , the resulting movie is more unintentionally funny than intentionally enigmatical or compelling .  the events take place in the distant year 2293 , but there is little of the typical futuristic movie-ness to be found .  in fact , things seems to have moved backwards , with people riding horses , shooting old-style guns , and living in large victorian mansions .  it's more middle ages than space age .  the world of " zardoz " is divided into two distinct hemispheres : the outlands , where all the poor , pathetic people live , and the vortex , where a select group of wealthy intellectuals live in comfort and everlasting life .  these immortals never grow old , they never engage in sexual activity , they possess psychological powers , and they live in a sort of quasi-utopian marxist society where everyone is equal , and everyone contributes equally to the society .  however , if one breaks the rules , that person is punished by being aged so many years .  if someone breaks the rules enough , he or she is aged to the point of senility , and imprisoned to an eternal existence in a geriatric home with others aged criminals .  one of the immortals , arthur frayn ( niall buggy ) , a squirmy man with a mustache and goatee tattooed on his face , is charged with keeping order in the outlands and forcing the residents to farm so the immortals can be fed .  like " the wizard of oz , " he adopts a god-like status among the people by flying in to their part of the world in a giant stone carved like a menacing head .   ( this flying head is one of the movie's opening images , and it's a dead giveaway of the lunacy to come . )  calling himself zardoz , frayn gathers a bunch of outlanders and makes them into a group called the exterminators , whose purpose is to kill most of the other outlanders so they can't procreate and take up more resources .  from inside his giant , stone head , zardoz bellows seriously laugh-inducting statements like , " the gun is good .  the penis is evil . "  that line alone is worth the movie's cult following .  one day , an exterminator named zed ( sean connery ) , sneaks into zardoz's flying stone , pushes frayn out , and goes back to the vortex .  once there , the immortals label him a " brutal " and study him like a lab rat , taking great , perverse care in exploring his sexuality , which is a mystery to them .  they seem especially interested in his ability to gain an erection , and there is one downright hilarious sequence where a bunch of scantily-clad female scientists show zed erotic footage on a video screen in an attempt to determine what gets him worked up .  i say " hilarious " because that is exactly what " zardoz " is .  it is obvious that boorman did not intend it to be so ; he made this film with the straightest of faces , although i have a hard time believing that as production moved forward , he didn't get even the slightest inkling of how patently ridiculous it was becoming .  just looking at connery is enough to give one the giggles - he spends most of the film running around in a red loin cloth that resembles a diaper , a mane of hair braided halfway down his back , a wyatt earp-style handlebar mustache , and a pair of thigh-high patent leather boots that would look more appropriate on a cheap hollywood hooker .  boorman made the film right after the critical and financial success of " deliverance , " which is the only reason i can imagine a studio would green-light this effort .  he attracted some rich talent on both sides of the camera , including cinematographer geoffrey unsworth ( " 2001 " ) , whose striking visuals are about the only good thing in " zardoz " besides the inadvertent humor .  sean connery had made his last james bond film in 1971 , and perhaps he was looking for a change in pace .  he got exactly that in " zardoz , " and it's a wonder it didn't end his career .  i'm sure boorman intended for this movie to make some grand statements .  is it a treatise about the infallibility of eternal life ?  is it a condemnation of those who consider growing old to be a bad thing ?  or is it a social statement , something about the inherent negativity of class distinctions and the violence it creates ?  karl marx might like it if he were more like timothy leary .  come to think of it , maybe boorman made it as an extended lsd trip .  people high on illicit substances are the only ones i can imagine enjoying this asinine silliness as anything more than a completely unintentional comedy . 
pos@ notice : this is a review and analysis of exotica .  the first part of this piece is the review , the second part contains some analysis of the movie which might be construed as spoilers .  if you have not seen the movie and after reading the first part you intend to do so , then save the second part for the discussion afterwards .  starring : bruce greenwood , mia kirshner , elias kosteas , don mckellar , arsinee khanijian , sarah polley director : atom egoyan screenplay : atom egoyan  exotica is a film that grows on retrospection .  exotica keeps the viewer guessing about the relationship between the various characters in the film .  all of the people know each other , but apart from that , there seems to be no other reason why to select such set and follow them in this fictional account .  the director hints for possible solutions , using a multi-line plot , so popular with critics in mystery train , and used to good advantage by quentin tarantino in pulp fiction .  exotica reaches a whole new dimension using this technique .  at the end it is surprising to see how well the pieces of the puzzle fit together , in spite their apparent unconnectedness and even misleading features .  the out-of-chronological-order technique has become ever so popular , perhaps even de rigueur , for biographical films .  similarly , we can now expect to see more movies in the future which will use , to varying extent , converging multiplots .  on a first glance , once the multi-plot puzzle in exotica is solved , there seems to be little left to look at .  but perceptive minds which take the time to dig further will be rewarded with interesting views on life or rather , commentaries on views of life .  exotica is very much worth seeing .  it opened to critic's praise worldwide ( i first saw it in mexico city , last december ) .  in canada , it broke records for a movie of its kind , which prompted the american distributor to go for a wide release .  apart from a strong plot , acting is very convincing , and the soundtrack seems as if made for the movie .  the spoon-fed-entertainment crowd may not appreciate this movie , and thus it might last little on screen .  but if you want to try a movie a cut above the crowd , with an originality that is ever so rare , by all means see exotica .  analysis ( * * spoilers * * ahead )  what is behind the complex plot in exotica ?  first , a common theme of the quest for gratification by monetary means .  the lone tax-auditor , the repressed homosexual pet shop owner , the pregnant woman which runs the nightclub , the rich man which has the club remodeled , the audience at the movie theatre , all use personal wealth to buy palliative relief for the penuries of the soul . . . .  then we have the quest for gratification through visual means by most of the same people , including those who sit watching exotica . . . .  in that regard exotica stands for onlookers at a nightclub , for the rich man looking through silver mirrors , and poor-rich people looking at other's people lives through a silver screen .  exotica also stands for unwanted society attention into the lives of other people , such as the tax auditor and the pet shop owner .  exotica is the customer agent looking at the pet shop owner , which in turn is looking at the core of the problems between the strip dancer and the tax auditor through the detached eye of a gay person ( no attraction to the strip dancer ) , and only interested on avoiding jail ( no personal relationship with the tax auditor ) .  in exotica everybody is watching , and what is worse , everybody knows .  second , exotica is about isolated people holding back their feelings ; about people which by voluntary or involuntary means transfer their view of reality to other characters .  the strip dancer becomes the proverbial daughter , the dj becomes the proverbial killer by means of breaking the relationship between the father and the proverbial daughter .  the niece becomes the baby sitter , the baby sitter becomes the dancer , and the dancer becomes the proverbial daughter .  the pet shop owner becomes the proverbial dj , by finding the proverbial daughter .  a chain made of real and imagined links coming around full circle , just as everything comes around to a fitting whole at the end of the movie . 
neg@  " there's nothing new under the sun " is a phrase often used when the speaker actually means " let's find something to copy . "  of course there are very few completely original ideas .  even earth-shattering concepts are built upon the vast body of human experience .  there is , after all , no need to re-invent the wheel time after time .  recently it seems that hollywood doesn't feel the need to even re-write the script .  my understanding of the word " sequel " is a continuation of the story .  the film industry has defined the word to mean reshooting the original with minor changes .  have an overwhelming desire to see an inferior version of brian depalma's adaptation of the steven king novel ?  this is your dream come true .  rachel ( emily bergl ) , a high school outcast , is beginning to notice weird things happening around her .  doors slam shut by themselves .  glass globes blow up .  her mother has severe mental problems and her father is absent .  a popular boy unexpectedly asks her out .  the in-crowd conspires to embarrass her at a public event .  any of this sound familiar ?  once the audience catches on that this is the same story as " carrie " , there's little to do but wait for the inevitable ending .  the effects are a bit better this time around , but the film doesn't work nearly as well .  there are a couple of minor plot differences .  rachel lives with foster parents because her mother is institutionalized .  the boys at her school are portrayed as even more evil than in the original .  they keep score of their scoring with points given for each conquest .  and , uh , there must be other story changes but none stand out .  one nice touch is the casting of amy irving again as sue snell .  over 20 years ago she was the one girl who tried to help carrie .  now a high school counselor , she befriends rachel , but her character's potential is squandered .  there's too much about sue that doesn't make sense .  after the slaughter when carrie kills most of her classmates , sue is driven mad and spends time in the institution that rachel's mother is in .  still living in the same small town , the woman with a well-known history of mental problems is hired as a high school counselor ?  sue tells rachel that her telekinesis is a genetic disease .  this may be the one original idea in the film , but the reasoning behind describing psychic powers as a " disease " is never explained .  sue's eventual fate is an admission by director katt shea and writer rafael moreu that they had an interesting character but couldn't figure out what to do with her .  blink and you'll miss it .  some of the events are filmed in black and white , but the rationale for this is unknown .  it doesn't add anything and the choice of scenes appears somewhat random .   " the rage " retains some of the trappings of " carrie " without the meaning .  in the first film the color red was a motif connected to carrie's onset of powers at the same time she began menstruating .  here there's an abundance of red , but for no apparent purpose .  the casting of high school jocks and cheerleaders as villains is beginning to wear thin .  one might be lead to suspect that most filmmakers were unpopular in school and the history of teenage films is an extended cinematic revenge of the nerds .  the biggest mistake the film makes is including clips of the original .  seeing sissy spacek on the screen only points to the quality of that film - and the flaws in this one . 
pos@  " jaws " is a rare film that grabs your attention before it shows you a single image on screen .  the movie opens with blackness , and only distant , alien-like underwater sounds .  then it comes , the first ominous bars of composer john williams' now infamous score .  dah-dum .  from there , director steven spielberg wastes no time , taking us into the water on a midnight swim with a beautiful girl that turns deadly .  right away he lets us know how vulnerable we all are floating in the ocean , and once " jaws " has attacked , it never relinquishes its grip .  perhaps what is most outstanding about " jaws " is how spielberg builds the movie .  he works it like a theatrical production , with a first act and a second act .  unlike so many modern filmmakers , he has a great deal of restraint , and refuses to show us the shark until the middle of the second act .  until then , he merely suggests its presence with creepy , subjective underwater shots and williams' music .  he's building the tension bit by bit , so when it comes time for the climax , the shark's arrival is truly terrifying .  he doesn't let us get bored with the imagery .  the first act opens with police chief martin brody ( roy scheider ) , a new york cop who has taken an easy , peaceful job running the police station on amity island , a fictitious new england resort town where there hasn't been a murder or a gun fired in 25 years .  the island is shaken up by several vicious great white shark attacks right before the fourth of july , and the mayor , larry vaughn ( murray hamilton ) , doesn't want to shut down the beaches because the island is reliant on summer tourist money .  brody is joined by matt hooper ( richard dreyfuss ) , a young , ambitious shark expert from the marine institute .  hooper is as fascinated by the shark as he is determined to help brody stop it -- his knowledge about the exact workings of the shark ( " it's a perfect engine , an eating machine " ) make it that much more terrifying .  when vaughn finally relents , hooper and brody join a crusty old shark killer named quint ( robert shaw ) on his decrepit boat , the orca , to search for the shark .  the entire second act takes place on the orca as the three men hunt the shark , and inevitably , are hunted by it .   " jaws " is a thriller with a keen sense of humor and an incredible sense of pacing , tension , and horror .  it is like ten movies all rolled into one , and it's no wonder it took america by storm in the summer of 1975 , taking in enough money to crown it the box office champ of all time ( until it was unceremoniously dethroned in 1977 by " star wars " ) .  even today , fascination with this film is on par with hitchcock's " psycho , " and it never seems to age .  although grand new technology exists that makes the technical sequences , including several mechanical sharks , obsolete , none of it could improve the film because it only would lead to overkill .  the technical limitations faced by spielberg in 1975 may have actually produced a better film because it forced him to rely on traditional cinematic elements like pacing , characterization , sharp editing , and creative photography , instead of simply dousing the audience with digital shark effects .  scheider , dreyfuss , and shaw were known actors at the time " jaws " was made , but none of them had the draw of a robert redford or paul newman .  nevertheless , this film guaranteed them all successful careers because each gave an outstanding performance and refused to be overshadowed by the shark .  scheider hits just the right notes as a sympathetic husband and father caught in the political quagmire of doing what's right and going against the entire town .   " it's your first summer here , you know , " mayor vaughn warns him .  dreyfuss , who had previously been seen in " american graffiti " ( 1973 ) and " the apprenticeship of duddy kravitz " ( 1974 ) gives a surprisingly mature , complex performance for someone who had literally only played kids and teenagers .  however , most outstanding is the gnarled performance by robert shaw as the movie's captain ahab , a performance sorely overlooked by the academy awards .  bordering of parody , shaw plays quint as a grizzled old loner whose machismo borders on masochism .  he's slightly deranged , and shaw's performance is almost a caricature .  however , there is one scene late in the film , when he and brody and hooper are below deck on the orca comparing scars .  quint is drawn into telling the story of his experiences aboard the u . s . s .  indianapolis , a navy ship in world war ii that was sunk by the japanese .  his tale of floating in the water for more than a week with over 1 , 000 other men while swarms of sharks slowly devoured them them is actually more hair-raising than anything spielberg put on screen .  shaw delivers the story in one long take , and it is the best acting in the film .  of course , we can't leave out the shark itself ; with its black eyes , endless rows of teeth , and insatiable urge to eat , it is basically the epitome of all mankind's fears about what is unknown and threatening in nature .  a shark is such a perfect nemesis it is real -- having survived sinch the dinosaurs , great whites do exist , they can be as large as the shark in " jaws , " and they are a threat .  every one of spielberg's subjective underwater shots makes us feel queasy because lets us see how we look to the shark : a bunch of writihing , dangling , completely unprotected legs just ready to be chomped into .  the shark in " jaws " was actually a combination of actual footage and five different mechanical sharks ( all nicknamed " bruce " by the crew ) built to be shot from different angles .  many have forgotten , but " jaws " was a sort of precursor to " waterworld " ( 1995 ) , a movie's who soggy production and cost overruns had universal studios worried about a bomb .  but , as we can see now , spielberg overcame all the obstacles , and delivered one of the finest primal scare-thrillers ever to come out of hollywood . 
neg@ wesley snipes is a master of selecting bad action roles .  murder at 1600 , u . s . marshals , money train , drop zone , boiling point , and the ultimate camp film - passenger 57 .  the art of war is another entry in this very ugly and unique category .  ultimately , it is little more than a ridiculous action film with a plot as believable as the warren report , ugly violence that would have made peckinpah cringe , and terrible acting by b-list actors like michael biehn and anne archer .  oddly , it feels like the undiscovered sequel to another snipes " masterpiece , " rising sun .  the movie revolves around the convenient story of a special un operative caught up in a secret murder conspiracy involving a chinese ambassador , the chinese triad brotherhood , a rich chinese businessman ( played by ? that bad guy from rising sun , cary-hiroyuki tagawa ) a chinese un interpreter , and , inexplicably , donald sutherland .  the film ends with more confusion than a boatload of chinese immigrants trying to register at ellis island .  or should i say the film ends with the most blatant ripoff of both the matrix and all of john woo's hong kong films combined .  i am really at a loss to figure out why wesley snipes had the gumption to not only star in this action dud but also act as one of the producers of the film .  i usually enjoy snipes' movies - though his dramatic roles better show off his creativity as an actor than the flashiness of his action films .  simply , i am amazed by the how inane the script was , filled with terrible cliches and extremely violent action sequences .  director christian duguay ( screamers ) has a strange attraction to the viciousness of violent acts -- showing splattering brains , people impaled with broken shards of glass , and lots of gargling and gagging as blood sprays everywhere .  it also sickens me to know that oliver stone , one of the greatest directors working today , had his hand in producing this monstrosity .  i guess snipes sold stone on the conspiracy angle and stone chose not to read the script , watch the dailies , be involved in casting , or anything else -- or else he'd be filing a court order to remove his name from the credits .  it's also seems evident that with the russkies as our new bosom buddies and the middle eastern terrorist angle being beaten to death in the last couple of years that the new international enemies in hollywood are the communist chinese .  i'm sure over the next couple of months , even more " chinese conspiracy/martial-arts action flicks " are going to be popping up in your local multiplex .  hopefully they won't include wesley snipes . 
pos@ the most amazing thing about paul cox's innocence is how unlike a movie it is .  i mean that as the highest compliment .  if most studios were to profile an elderly couple who rekindle a 40-year-old romance , i'd want to run and hide .  the sex scenes would be handled as a farce , producers would shed 20 years off the characters' ages ( so susan sarandon and harrison ford could star ) and true love would shine through any obstacle without explanation and consequence .  along with a charming romantic story , the australian/belgian innocence shows how an increasing sense of mortality combined with revisiting the past while being entrenched in the present can make something that seems so right seem downright questionable .  the romance gets started when former musician andreas ( charles " bud " tingwell ) , learns that his true love , claire ( julia blake ) , lives nearby .  they decide to catch up on old times , but soon find themselves in a reinvigorating affair .  complicating matters is andreas' frail health , and claire's longtime husband ( terry norris ) , who can't understand why he's suddenly become obsolete .  in my mind , the movie is less about the relationship between andreas and claire , than the feelings of everyone involved .  john , claire's husband , endlessly questions what he did wrong .  claire initially insists she's a grown-up , but admittedly behaves like a child , a prospect that thrills and disappoints her .  andreas , an agnostic , begins to question his fate , a message cox delivers in a memorable dream sequence .  cox litters the movie with flashbacks , including the repeated vision of a roaring train .  it's a reminder of andreas and claire's past love ( as young lovers , they met by train ) , but as it recurs , we get the feeling that the past and the present have clashed .  a pall is cast on the whole affair .  a master of the understated , cox strings together a series of memorable moments .  in andreas' dream sequence , amidst the roar of the train and conversations , we get the whole picture of andreas and claire's love .  we also get glimpses into john and claire's relationship .  during a silent candlelit dinner shortly afterward , claire admits to john about her indiscretion , telling more than any monologue could .  all that's heard is the scraping of forks against plates .  the characters are unlike anything i've seen -- they're people .  so many times , movies and especially television portray senior citizens as gratingly spunky .  or they're reduced to comedic buffoons .  ordinary people with a pile of emotions , claire and andreas aren't sure what the next step is .  they do want to be happy , which consists of an entirely different set of conditions than what they've known throughout their adult lives .  bravo to cox , who wrote the script , for not making john a monster , so that claire's affair is automatically justified .  norris is so effective as john that he makes andreas and claire's love difficult to accept .  we feel for him .  he's a decent man .  sure , he may have become complacent , but he never expected this , especially now .  with so much presented to the audience , it's only expected that the material gets a little drawn out and repetitive , which it does .  however , in bringing up tough questions and not offering easy answers , cox displays a skill and ? lan isn't likely to be surpassed by anyone anytime soon . 
neg@ by-the-numbers : a film which introduces characters , situations , dilemmas and developments that we've seen before in a parade of other films .  a film which can easily be guessed out by the end of frame number one .  a film which is packed to the cap with predictability , leading to very little tension , excitement , suspense or interest on the part of its paying audience .  in short , a clich ? -ridden formula film .  welcome to my review of the general's daughter .  plot : an undercover army detective and a rape counselor find themselves locked inside an investigation into some bigwig general daughter's rape , torture and murder .  they must delve through all of the unspoken army rules and the hush-hushes , to figure out the conspiracy behind the shocking murder .  critique : by the numbers ( see above ) .  this film is just there .  it sits there on the big screen for a couple of hours , floats around , goes away , hopefully never to be heard from again .  it is so predictable that even a blind man could see its plot points coming a mile away .  it's as suspenseful as a leaf dropping from a tree .  it's as action-packed as a canadian curling tournament .  get the picture ?  i sure did . . . it's  too bad that it took my friend and i less than two minutes to figure out the entire plot , and to break down each scene before it was even completed .  easy as pie .  it's unfortunate because james woods and john travolta actually have one extremely enjoyable scene together near the beginning of the film , but alas , t'was not to be ( that scene alone scored two of my four points allotted . )  woods chews it up in the few scenes that he's in , travolta passes the test , cromwell plays , well , cromwell , and stowe is window dressing with a smile ( mia since 12 monkeys ( 8/10 ) it seems ) .  and this predictability isn't reserved only to those who have seen films like courage under fire or a few good men , it runs deep inside every one of us who knows to suspect someone as soon as they see their obvious guilty mug on the big screen .  it's like riding a bike .  other scenarios which sponge out any tension , suspense or interest from this film include every single character eventually " breaking down " to the investigators without much reason given , a ridiculously placed background relationship between two of the lead characters , as much action as my grandparents bedroom nightly , and a directorial style that can only reward director simon west with a solid nomination for the " best poor man's michael bay doing his best poor man's impression of tony scott " ( add two scenes with sunlight shining through some half-open shades for grit and integrity , and an all-out rainfall for the finale for further chaos , and you're a great director .  yawn .  yeah , whatever tony . . . i  mean , simon . )  and aren't we all sick of hearing about these army " bad boys " and their overdone " code of silence " ? !  enough already !  next subject , please .  see it on video if you wanna fall asleep after seeing a much better movie like an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) .  otherwise , save yourself the trouble and go take a crap instead .  you'll feel much better afterwards .  trust me .  little known facts about this film and its stars : ironically , john travolta turned down the lead role in an officer and a gentleman , which eventually went to little dickie gere .  ironically on james woods' part , he completed one of his earliest acting roles on tv's " welcome back , kotter " , starring none other than john travolta .  actor james woods recently confirmed reports of his " big dick " on howard stern's radio program .  unlike rocker tommy lee , woods is also alleged to have an iq of 180 .  he apparently scored a perfect 800 on his verbal sats and a 779 on the math section .  what a man !  john travolta is married to actress kelly preston , and they have a son named jett ( travolta loves them planes ! ) .  word on the street is that the kid was apparently conceived during a weekend at demi moore and bruce willis' home .  director simon west's first film was the jerry bruckheimer produced con air ( 6 . 5/10 ) .  before that , he directed tv commercials including the budweiser ad with the dancing ants .  yippee !  veteran director john frankenheimer ( ronin ( 7 . 5/10 ) ,  the manchurian candidate ) portrays the character of general sonnenberg in this film .  the imdb reports that when senator robert kennedy was shot at the ambassador hotel in los angeles on june 5 , 1968 , it was his good friend john frankenheimer who had personally driven him there that day .  clarence williams iii , who plays colonel fowler in this film , is known to some from his role as " linc " in the original " mod squad " tv series .  younger folk may remember him as prince's father in purple rain . 
pos@ the rich man's wife is one of those movies like final analysis or body double , where the story and characters are so one-dimensional and contrived that you know you shouldn't be enjoying yourself .  but somehow , the movie just tries so hard that you begin to forgive it and get into the swing of things .  not that it's bad , it's just that it's been done before ; and better , in my opinion .  i realize that this is going to sound pretty bizarre , but it's probably the best analogy that i can come up with right now ; you know how when you see a spider or something in your toilet , striving helplessly to get out , and instead of just flushing him , you end up kind of rooting for the little guy ?  that's basically how i felt about this movie .  i mean , it's not very good , but it's not completely bad either .  the wife of the title is josie potenza ( played nicely by halle berry ) .  she is married to tony ( christopher mcdonald . . . you  know , the guy who looks like joe piscapo ) , a really stressed-out businessman who drinks way to much and doesn't give josie the attention she deserves ( * cough , cough * ) .  thus , she is driven into the arms of another man , jake golden ( clive owen ) .  near the beginning of the film , josie decides to try and work things out with tony by dumping jake and going on a vacation to a remote cabin in the woods .  once there , however , tony has to leave almost immediately due to business details ( i'm still not quite sure what line of work he's in ) .  making the best of her situation , josie stays there and begins making the rounds at the local bars .  one night , she meets a stranger named cole ( peter greene , finally getting a meaty role ) .  they have dinner together , and eventually , both josie and the audience start to realize that cole is homicidal .  after learning that she is not happily married , cole offers to " take care " of the problem .  managing to escape from the psychotic maniac , josie returns home and starts a reconciliation with her estranged and very wealthy husband .  but then one night , cole shows up . . .  and here is where the fun begins .  from this point on , it's going to be a no-holds- barred cliche-fest , ripping off every movie from strangers on a train to the usual suspects .  this is why most critics panned this movie when it first came out .  and for the most part , they're right ; the rich man's wife has nary one original bone in it's body .  but who cares ?  if you're looking for good ol' dumb suspense movie , you can't do much better than this .  and if you suspense buffs aren't already sold , it has a killer of an ending too . 
neg@  " alcohol and drugs = bad .  not alcohol and drugs = good .  got it ? "  just when you though you've seen enough of brave young women dealing with their personal problems on screen , be that insanity or alcoholism , hollywood releases yet another one of those 'deep , emotional stories about finding yourself' . .  '28 days' is practically a visualization of the usual 'meaningful' true stories that people are so proudly retelling at aa-meetings .  gwennie ( sandra bullock ) is a young woman who drowned her problems in alcohol .  for her life was a big party , with no beginning and no end .  this behavior has of course estranged her from her only sister and from life itself .  her existence is filled with endless parties and comic episodes .  such as when she got drunk with boyfriend jasper ( dominic west ) , borrowed her sister's ( elizabeth perkins ) wedding limo and crashed it into someone's house .  this time she had to pay with a 28 day stay in court-ordered rehab .  here she must realize that the only thing that can save her is her is redemption , willpower and commitment .  most important she must realize her place and direction in life and understand that her life is not just a big party .  the film itself feels like a rehab program , whining and moaning about things that have been said and written a million times .  it is a classic cautionary tale .  an echo .  a big , fat and expensive clich ? .  a shadow of last year's 'girl , interrupted' , which likewise followed in the footsteps of great masterpieces like 'the cuckoo's nest' and 'trainspotting' .  director betty thomas has stuffed her film with so many failures and errors , that it is impossible to sum them all up in one review .  for some paranoid reason she decided to make her film a drama/comedy .  jokes and funny characters almost deliberately delude you from the really important and complex issues : alienation , despair , terror , confusion , loneliness .  and what awesome power and strength of character it actually takes to overcome all that and become clean .  isn't that what the filmmakers wanted to show in the first place ?  even the transition process itself seems like a walk in the park . betty thomas' idea of hell is a cozy , homey place where happy alcoholics and cheerful drug addicts are not allowed to smoke , drink or watch tv after 11 .  it is simply too light , simplified and unnecessary sweet to be taken seriously .  but the worst thing about it is that it actually thinks that it is saying something of significance .  that it actually tries to educate the audience with its extremely predictable and primitive story .   " all you need to do is just say no " , says dr . cornell ( steve buscemi ) as if was the revelation of the century .  and that's how simple it is !  in fact i would rather watch 'lost in space' once again , than return to '28 days' .  as for acting , it's acceptable , but hardly anything else .  for sandra bullock it's an opportunity to demonstrate that she is capable of more than 'speed' .  she handles her part with a surprising professionalism and ease that certainly saves the film from being a complete flop .  dominic west shines as the source of gwenie's devilish temptations , but elizabeth perkins' and steve buscemi's great talents are wasted on unnoticeable and shallow characters .  although intellectually 'girl , interrupted' was a greater achievement , '28 days' is superior in its visual aspect .  there are some nice flash back sequences and occasionally impressive pacing , but the overall technical aspect of this film is on the ground floor .  the most important thing is that we've seen it before and it was a lot better .  'clean and sober' , 'only when i laugh' , 'when a man loves a woman' , 'leaving las vegas' and many other stronger films were made about the same issues .  so what's the point ?  in other words '28 days' doesn't contribute to the moviemaking business on any level .  if you're caught in a snowstorm or bolts of lightning fall from the sky and you're standing in front of the movie theatre , you might as well go in and watch '28 days' .  under all other circumstances stay away , because this film equals $8 and 103 minutes lost . 
pos@ veteran actor clint eastwood has never looked as grizzled as he does in true crime , his latest directorial effort .  when steve everett ( his newest character ) gets angry at someone , he glares them down with those famous dirty harry eyes , furrows his brow and frowns like a grizzly bear who's just lost his cubs .  eastwood has played some particularly despicable characters in his time , but everett could just take the cake .  he gets my vote , at least , partly because `ev' is a drunken affair-a-week womanizer who has many relationship problems , very few of which are with his wife ( diane venora ) .  when his colleague at the oakland tribune is in an ugly car wreck and dies , everett must take over for her at a vital interview session .  the interview is with frank beacham ( isaiah washington ) , a death-row inmate set to die at midnight for the murder of a pregnant convenience store clerk .  eastwood furrows his brow .  as everett gradually finds information , he realizes that beacham could very well be innocent .  he interviews a key witness ( michael jeter ) , who claims that he burst in the door at pocum's foods because his car had overheated , only to see beacham standing over the dead woman's body , blood on his suspenders , gun in hand .  but everett protests : how could he have seen the gun , which was lowered by his side , with the potato chip rack in front of him ?  jeter doesn't know what he's talking about .  eastwood furrows his brow .  crinkled expressions and all , clint is the centre of energy of true crime .  the film is by no means a standard action/suspense yarn , but a thoughtful human story in which the characters come before the shoot-outs .  isaiah washington has a break-out performance as frank beacham , and scenes with him and his weary wife ( lisa gay hamilton ) are truly heartfelt moments .  but the best scenes are ones that feature eastwood duking it out with those in authority over him .  denis leary , as everett's editor and boss , has more than a few memorable moments of restrained anger ( you see , ev is sleeping with his wife ) .  but hands down , the most enjoyable segments of the film are when james woods is on camera .  playing the big boss alan mann , woods and eastwood create amusing chemistry and laugh-out-loud punchlines .  when true crime opts for a high-speed chase to the governer's house at the finale , the quality of film-making takes an abrupt nosedive .  eastwood was so successful with colorful character portraits that he didn't need to switch lanes .  true crime is a tension-building , intriguing drama showcase for the talented director and star .  this is a road block he could have easily dismissed ( i furrow my brow ) .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 