neg@ play it to the bone , the newest addition to ron shelton's sports - themed repertoire fails in numerous ways .  like most of shelton's other great films ( bull durham , white men can't jump ) , this dud unsuccessfully attempts to use athleticism as a method of connecting characters and creating interesting subplots .  shelton's films are not considered sports films , but they do heavily revolve around a specific game to tell a story .  shelton has been so good in the past at using sports to analyze the structure of society that from his collection of films we are given an examination of different classes and races living in various different regions .  play it to the bone is unsuccessful because not only is the boxing theme dull , but the side story of the two guys and a girl travelling across the country is even worse .  the film has no social message like its predecessors .  the relationship between the friends , two failed boxers who must face off against each other in the ring for 50 thousand dollars , is very confusing for a number of reasons .  the whole film , since it is primarily a " buddy picture , " depends on the strength of the friendship the two characters have for each other .  unfortunately , it is a very weak bond for the reasons listed below .  1 ) we never see how cesar ( antonio banderas ) and vince ( woody harrelson ) meet .  the two are so different from each other , that a scene of how this odd friendship developed should have been mandatory .  2 ) vince and cesar argue every moment possible on their trip to las vegas .  there is not one convincing moment dedicated to seeing the characters laugh together or actually agree on something .  3 ) the third character on the trip , grace ( lolita davidovich ) stands in the way .  she is in nearly every scene with them , making it impossible to understand the difficulty the two male characters are going to have when they fight each other .  4 ) there are two many interfering , irrelevant side stories .  vince is convinced that he sees jesus on a regular basis , cesar yells at the sky in spanish when he is angry , and grace tries to sell her inventions to hotel owner robert wagner .  these boring tales only hurt the central plot .  5 ) when it comes to time for the two men to fight , they don't even hesitate to pound each other .  wasn't the whole point of the road trip to show that these two are friends who could never hurt each other ?  by the time the road trip part of the movie is over with , the film wants to be over .  shelton , on the other hand , continues to tell his story .  forty five painful minutes remain .  the boxing scene between cesar and vince starts out very powerful and interestingly different from other boxing movies .  however , the fight goes on for way too long and becomes very repetitive and predictable after awhile , kind of like the whole film . 
pos@ at first glance , it appears that the home alone movies are brainless slapstick intended for those with minds of 8-year olds .  that's true of home alone 2 and i'd bet money that it's true of home alone 3 ( opening soon ) .  but home alone actually has a lot going for it , and the cartoon slapstick doesn't get in the way .  the mcalisters , all 15 of them , are going to france for the holidays .  four adults and eleven kids are spending the night together before heading to the airport en masse .  the littlest kid , kevin , is the victim of the older kids' cruelty .  kevin's patience runs out when he learns that his plain-cheese pizza has already been eaten , and he's going to have to starve .  he attacks his big bully brother buzz , who had been teasing him .  the fight disrupts the already-chaotic dinner , spilling milk and soft drinks all over the table , a few cousins , and an uncle .  the knee-jerk reaction is for everyone to blame kevin .  nobody came to his rescue when he was being teased , but they all point their fingers when he fights back .  the ultimate punishment comes from mom ( catherine o'hara ) who sends him up to the spare bedroom in the attic for the night .  on his way up the stairs , he tells her that " families suck " and that he hopes never to see any of his family again .  that night the power goes out , knocking out the alarm clocks , so the mcalisters wake up in a big hurry to get to the airport .  in a surprisingly plausible setup , kevin is mistakenly accounted for , and the family heads off without him .  it's interesting that , in a subtle way , his parents never noticed him missing because of their deliberate desire to separate themselves from their children .  first they delegate the headcount to an older sibling , and second , they put all the kids in coach while they fly first class .  they're two-thirds of the way across the atlantic before they realize they are missing a child .  meanwhile , kevin believes that somehow his wish has come true .  he's finally rid of his family !  life is a dream come true .  he can jump on the beds , watch r-rated movies , eat gobs of ice cream and potato chips , and dig through his big brother's secret box .  slowly , the novelty wears off and he settles into the mundane .  he grooms himself , he does the laundry , he goes shopping ( " i bought some milk , eggs , and fabric softener " ) .  he also starts to miss his family , not just for their company , but for the security they bring .  the furnace in the basement is a scary monster , the old man next door is a snow-shovel murderer , and two crooks are trying to break into his house .  macaulay culkin is cute but he isn't much of an actor .  still , we can see that kevin's character grows , thanks to some good direction and editing .  for example , acting has little to do with the emotional impact of the scene where kevin searches out a seasonal santa at night , just as " santa " is getting in his car .  kevin asks the man to pass on his request - he wants his family back - to the real santa .  he learned how to deal with the furnace .  you turn on the lights and it's not so scary anymore .  he goes to a church one evening and there he sees the snow-shovel murderer , who actually turns out to be a nice man .  they talk about their fears and kevin learns that age alone does not make you less afraid .  finally , in the last 20 minutes , kevin confronts his last fear - the bandits , head on ( literally ) .  this last act is full of violent comedic slapstick , and after the movie's genuine dramatic setup , it is dessert .  it's a lot of fun , and it doesn't overwhelm the rest of the movie .  on the whole , home alone is a great holiday movie .  john williams' original score has the sound and feel of holiday music without the disadvantage of being overplayed at the malls , and the christmas setting can put you in the mood for those family gatherings .  but it does have its flaws .  the smallest problem is that culkin doesn't act very well .  as i said before , he is cute , but repeated viewings reveal more about how columbus covered himself than about culkin's insight into his character .  the biggest problem is that during the cartoony coda , the villains threaten kevin's life about five times .  instead of " i'm gonna get that kid " they say " i'm gonna kill that kid . "  some might argue that the tone is the same , but i strongly disagree .  mixing comedy with specific and viable threats of murder is a sociopathic faux-pas .  i'll probably never see home alone 3 , and i wish i had skipped home alone 2 , but i do enjoy home alone almost every year .  don't let your impressions of the others detract from the original , which has much more to offer than cartoon slapstick . 
neg@ 200 cigarettes takes place on new year's eve 1981 .  monica , played by martha plimpton is having a huge new year's party .  everyone in town is trying to get there , but some are caught up in other things .  this is the basic plot of 200 cigarettes .  as we meet the characters headed towards the party , we are sent into many subplots which are unoriginal , and not interesting at all .  this disappointed me greatly .  the film should have been more about the party than the people trying to get there in my opinion .  lucy , played by courtney love , is with kevin , played by paul rudd .  the two are in a relationship that is more of a friendship , but starts to blossom into something more than that .  this subplot is extremely boring and dull , and i am getting quite sick of plots like that .  janeane garofalo is involved in another subplot , dealing with kevin .  she plays ellie , an ex-girlfriend of kevin's .  this subplot is completely a waste of garofalo's talent .  there was no point to it at all , and it was hardly even in the movie .  when lucy runs into a bartender , played by ben affleck , another subplot is formed .  the bartender is invited by lucy to come to monica's party .  at the bar , he runs into two more girls .  the girls are played by angela featherstone and nicole parker , but unfortunately , due to the terrible acting of both of them , i don't even remember their characters names .  ben affleck is a good actor , but his character doesn't go anywhere so he doesn't have much screen time to give a good performance .  featherstone and parker are horrible in their roles , and they are part of the reason the film is so bad .  christina ricci plays val , and gaby hoffman plays stephie .  the two girls are trying to get to the party but are extremely lost .  they meet some guys and end up going around with them all night .  this subplot was alright , but it was quite annoying with stephie's accent .  hoffman did an okay job of acting , but ricci did good .  she was underused , considering she is such a wonderful actress .  another subplot in the film is the relationship between cindy , played by goldie hawn's daughter , and jack , played by jay mohr .  jack is an actor who doesn't care about the girls he goes out with , he just likes dates for one night , and the next day he doesn't .  kate hudson is a huge klutz .  she gets herself into very funny situations , that are the funniest parts in the entire movie .  they are probably the only funny parts in the entire movie as well .  this subplot could have been used more , mainly due to hudson's performance .  mohr wasn't good , but he wasn't bad .  he was just alright , which i didn't find acceptable .  there is not much to say about the performances in the film .  none of the characters are developed or shown enough to really tell if the acting is good or not .  the only performances that i can judge are christina ricci's as always good performance , kate hudson's funny role , courtney love's mediocre performance , and paul rudd's annoying and overused performance .  i was hoping for a little more out of jaw mohr , ben affleck , casey affleck , gaby hoffman , dave chapelle , and especially out of janeane garofalo .  the two strongest things in the film were the great soundtrack and the original costumes .  martha plimpton and christina ricci had very different and original outfits which made me feel like i was in the year 1981 .  the soundtrack is full of 1980's tunes , ranging from " i want candy " to " tainted love . "  the songs in the movie also helped create the feel that you were back in the 1980s .  during the film , i often found myself asking the questions , " is there a reason to this ?  is there any moral story ?  is there a point ?  are any of the events going on in the film necessary ?  do i care what lucy and kevin are going through ? "  the movie is extremely boring , and by the time they reached eleven-o-clock , one hour before midnight , i could not wait for the movie to be over .  the plot is okay , but the subplots make it terrible .  maybe if the film was about the party , not about the people at the party , it could have been a lot better .  the bottom line : just like a slasher movie , this ? 80s comedy is just one too many . 
pos@ a wonderful little movie that is really interested in its characters and in its theme .  the scene of " second best " is laid in wales .  james ( chris cleary miles ) is a 10-year-old boy who must live in a home because his father ( keith allen ) is in prison and his mother committed suicide .  james is a mentally unbalanced child .  he can't forget what happened in the past , and he dreams of living a happy life with his beloved father .  in the home he feels sadly and lonely .  one day , a social worker ( alan cumming ) tells him of a person who wants to adopt him .  this person is graham holt ( william hurt ) .  graham manages a post office and shop in a village .  he is a single and hasn't any real friends .  his mother is dead , and his father is ill and will die .  graham feels that he has been a disappointment to his parents .  there has never been real love between his parents and him .  graham's monotonous life would get a new sense if he could adopt james .  but graham has not only to convince the institutions , but must also win the love of james .  james and graham have to open theirselves .  they must get to know each other and learn to understand and trust the other person .  james and graham aid each other to cope with their problems .  but will their relationship really have a future ?   " second best " is based on a novel by david cook who also wrote the screenplay .  the film was directed by chris menges who had made his directing debut with the very good anti-apartheid drama " a world apart " ( 1987/88 ) .  and maybe , " second best " is even a greater picture .  this precise , richly detailed , sensitively and convincingly directed study about a special adoption treats its theme with great seriousness .  the breathtakingly intense film shows the necessity of human contact and communication .  william hurt delivers an outstanding performance as graham holt .  and chris cleary miles is remarkably convincing in the role of the boy .  the supporting cast is also fine ( especially jane horrocks as debbie , a social worker who is charged to examine graham's living circumstances ) .   " second best " is an underestimated masterpiece .  it's a pity that films like this one are made so seldom .  i eagerly await menges' next directorial work , " the lost son " , which will star daniel auteuil . 
neg@ i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder .  i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house .  so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie .  but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place .  the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house .  when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ?  gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids .  actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever .  when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . "  obviously .  all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago .  so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids .  that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . "  decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table .  so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character .  and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q .  test went straight off the chart ! " )  and attracts electrical power .  this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class .  goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest .  but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing .  i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) .  that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself .  but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization .  none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance .  i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened .  from noraruth!aol . com  mon jun 10 15 : 04 : 03 edt 1996 article : 3654 of rec . arts . movies . reviews  path : nntphub . cb . att . com ! not-for-mail  from : noraruth!aol . com   ( andrew hicks ) newsgroups : rec . arts . movies . reviews , rec . arts . sf . reviews  subject : review : powder ( 1995 ) followup-to : rec . arts . movies . current-films , rec . arts . sf . movies  date : 10 jun 1996 18 : 16 : 03 gmt organization : university of missouri - columbia lines : 70 sender : ecl!mtcts1 . att . com   ( evelyn c . leeper ) approved : ecl!mtcts1 . att . com  message-id : " > reply-to : noraruth!aol . com   ( andrew hicks ) nntp-posting-host : mtcts2 . mt . lucent . com  summary : r . a . m . r .  #05425 keywords : author=hicks originator : ecl!mtcts2 xref : nntphub . cb . att . com  rec . arts . movies . reviews : 3654  rec . arts . sf . reviews : 710  status : ro  powder a film review by andrew hicks copyright 1996 andrew hicks / fatboy productions  i've never written a review for a movie i haven't watched all the way through , but i had to make an exception with powder .  i was about forty-five minutes into this one at a friend's house when he and his brother got into a huge shouting match that would have ended in violence had we not left the house .  so i never got to finish the movie and i'm sure as hell not going to pay three more bucks to watch half of a bad movie .  but i can at least get a partial review out of it , because i saw enough to know this one wasn't worth finishing in the first place .  the movie centers around a freaky teenager who's spent his entire life living in the cellar of his grandparents' house .  when grandpa dies ( taking his department store down with him ) , social worker mary steenburgen has to take powder ( first and middle names ?  gold bond ) to a state home , where we find out he's a different from the other kids .  actually , we find out he's different when we first see him , because he's the most pale individual we've ever seen and moreover he has no body hair whatsoever .  when powder is born in the opening minutes of the movie , the father takes one look at him and says " he's not my son . "  obviously .  all i want to know is where the pillsbury dough boy was nine months ago .  so the white-faced freak leaves his neverland ranch for the state home and faces the ridicule of other kids .  that is , until they try to haze him during his first cafeteria lunch by making him " wear " his spoon ( " you can either wear it on your nose or up your ass . "  decisions , decisions . . . ) and he uses telepathic powers to draw all the silverware in the room into a giant pile in the middle of the table .  so if his father is the pillsbury dough boy , his mother must be sissy spacek's carrie character .  and you have to factor in two more things from the subsequent scenes , as we find out powder has some sort of super-intelligence ( " your i . q .  test went straight off the chart ! " )  and attracts electrical power .  this first shows up as powder visits the world of high school ( if he's such a genius already , why would he need a high school education ? ) and sits through a demonstration in jeff goldblum's science class .  goldblum plugs in a " jacob's ladder " device that shows current running up two wires and immediately the current flows across the room and into powder's chest .  but goldblum just stands there for about thirty seconds watching , instead of just unplugging the damn thing .  i guess he was too busy contemplating why he was appearing in his third bad movie in a row ( following hideaway and nine months ) .  that's about all i saw before the big fight began and , let me tell you , that was twice as interesting as the movie itself .  but like i said , i saw enough to know this would be one of those terrible melodramas about the isolation of people who have superior abilities and how hard it is for those people to assimilate themselves into mainstream civilization .  none of these movies ever handle the subject properly , instead introducing the feeble beauty and the beast copout of having a beautiful woman fall in love with the guy's personality , overlooking his personal appearance .  i already had the female character picked out ( the girl who was sitting next to him in the back of the room during the electrocution scene ) , but i guess i'll never know for sure what happened . 
pos@ summary five liberal iowa graduate students share a house and carry on a tradition of a large sunday dinner .  for a year now they have been inviting a guest for dinner and discussion .  on this occasion one of the roommates , pete ( ron eldard ) , brings home a stranger who picked him up when his car broke down .  the stranger is zack ( bill paxton ) who appears like a decent enough good samaritan .  nothing could be further from the truth .  after some dinner conversation it appears that zack is , among other things , a racist " you know my grandfather once said that if he knew you coloreds were going to be so much trouble we'd have picked the damn cotton ourselves " , and an anti-semite .  an argument escalates at the dinner table and leads to violence .  after zack assaults marc ( jonathan penner ) and pete , zack is killed .  the roommates are at odds with what to do .  marc , pete and paulie ( annabeth gish ) immediately wish to call the police .  luke ( courtney b . vance ) and jude ( cameron diaz ) suggest something different .  after more discussion they agree to dispose of the body and cover it up .  they do not want to be sent to jail for what they feel was a justifiable homicide .  when it is done the roommates realize that it was easier than they thought .  so easy in fact that they decide that every sunday their dinner guest would be someone who opposes of their views .  if they all agree that the guest deserves to die , they will poison them and bury them in the back yard .  the back yard fills up rather quickly , its' victims including ( among others ) a right to life extremist , an anti-environmentalist and a homophobe .  by the time the roommates get to their tenth victim they begin to question their methods .  are they giving the guests a chance ?  are they even giving them good food anymore ?  this film is what i like to call a " hidden treasure " .  this film is such a pleasant surprise .  a well written , devilish satire that is funny , sexy and original .  this film should be a hit , but i guess the fact that it apparently had no marketing wouldn't give it much of a chance .  i had never heard of it until i saw a copy at my video store .  stacy title does a wonderful job directing .  she somehow finds the time to give all of the characters enough screen time to develop a distinct personality .  >from the five members of the house to other key characters including sheriff stanley ( nora dunn ) , the local law closing in on the truth , and the dream dinner guest , norman arbuthnot ( ron perlman ) , a rush limbaugh clone who should be the roommates easiest kill .  perlman gives the films' best performance .  he finds the right note as the right wing big mouth who simultaneously offends and gains followers , and may just inadvertently talk his way out of death .  the other actors are convincing as well , as all of the roommates deal with their murderous ways .  some of the characters appear to be heading down the road towards insanity , while others grieve their decisions .  when friends ask me to recommend a movie , this is usually the first one i think of .  i am not saying that this is my favorite movie ( although it is in my top ten ) , but because the film was such a wonderful surprise , i have a fondness for it .  i also try to recommend films like this : ones that have not been seen by many people , but should . 
neg@ synopsis : the president of a company wants to test his self-appointed successor , who's psychotic , and thinks it's a great idea to spend a week with him and their wives in an isolated cabin a hundred miles from civilization with no dependable transportation or means of communication after a heavy snowfall .  comments : tracks of a killer had a couple of strikes against it before i even began watching it .  strike one was the fact that someone had scrawled the word garbage on the videotape's sticker in black marker ( not typically a good sign when you rent a film ) .  strike two came while the previews played .  did you ever get a sinking premonition about a movie's quality ( or lack thereof ) while watching the trailers that come before it ?  well , the cheesy films being advertised before tracks of a killer were films that no one has ever heard of starring people no one knows , and they all looked bad ( definately not a good sign ) .  tracks of a killer itself completed the strikeout .  about the only positive thing this film had going for it was the fact that it sports some nice scenery .  to be fair , the first half-hour or so promises at least a watchable thriller .  wolf larson , who bears more than a passing resemblance to hugh grant , adequately plays the underling obviously set up as the killer of the film's title .  james brolin and kelly lebrock seem equally adequate as the loving couple larson will later threaten .  brolin's character , for some inexplicable reason , thinks its a great idea to spend some time in a cabin , practically isolated , with lebrock and larson , whom he's decided to test for the week before giving him full control of his company .  by the time the characters arrive at the cabin , this film begins to become tedious .  apparently , brolin's successor's test involves chopping wood for the fireplace and skiing , which don't seem like attributes necessary to run a business in the city .  but , then again , what do i know about business ?  i do think , though , that they should have invested in some better furniture for the cabin ; its beds and closets have a habit of just breaking at the slightest touch .  larson's character accidently kills his own wife rather than the couple he wants to kill .  this leaves the movie with an hour to go and only three characters , which really isn't enough to sustain it .  the film's writer must have taken a cue from stephen king , as scenes from tracks of a killer seem lifted out of misery and gerald's game .  larson and lebrock fight and torture each other ( the tables get turned a couple of times ) while brolin tramps around in the snow looking for help .  some old guy's around too , just so the killer can add to his body count without killing the couple , who everyone knows will be alive at the end of the film .  the old guy , however , miraculously survives his first death and appears later to be killed again by the killer in a scene so ludicrous it's worthy of a chuckle or two .  outside of that chuckle , unfortunately , tracks of a killer will just bore you as the obvious plot is drawn out ad infinitum and the actors , for some reason , become increasing obnoxious .  if you're in a video store and thinking about renting this turkey , don't .  make tracks to a far superior suspense film , like misery . 
pos@ sam ( matthew broderick ) is an astronomer in a small american town and engaged to teacher linda ( kelly preston ) .  he is head over heels in love and lindas sudden departure to new york city to live with her new lover anton ( tch ? ky karyo ) comes as a complete surprise to him .  but as we all know love is blind and so sam leaves for new york as well to win her back .  he moves into an abandoned house across the street from anton's apartment and installs a camera obscura to watch them .  suddenly anton's ex maggie shows up , but she does not want her former lover back .  on the contrary , all she wants to do is vaporize him .  she may say that she doesn't want to kill him , but the possibility doesn't bother her too much either .  after all , people die every day .  in spite of their different motives the two team up and fall for each other as things move on .  the story sounds like something we all have seen a million times .  but we haven't .  griffin dunne brings us the most charming comedy since " while you where sleeping " .  the camera obscura adds a " special something " to the movie and makes it an exceptional romantic comedy .  everything about the movie is perfect , from set design to casting .  the dialogues are inspired and the touches of black humor add a certain bite .  meg ryan , known from " when harry met sally " or " sleepless in seattle " , surprises in a role that may finally help her get rid of her sweet little girl image .  she impresses the viewer as a maneating biker girl .  even more surprising is the fact that the viewer believes her , much more so than in last years " courage under fire " where she played a gulf war pilot .  matthew broderick is the goodnatured and somewhat naive sam who has trouble accepting reality .  the viewer can tell that he doesn't only watch the stars but also tries to reach out for them .  he has trouble keeping in touch with reality .  after all , who would leave everything behind to chase a lost love ?  his naivet ? that we don't question for a minute throughout the movie clashes with maggies exaggerated wish for revenge .  she would do anything to harm anton .  she doesn't hesitate to use sam for her plan and makes him understand right from the beginning that nothing will happen between the two of them .  that makes the scenes when they innocently share a bed , have potatoe chips and watch the action across the street like a saturday night show on tv even funnier .  tch ? ky karyo is perfect as anton .  he is , well , repulsive .  that's all there is to say about him .  you can't really manage to pity him , even after all his mishaps .  he not only took sam's bride away from him , he is also a french chef .  worlds collide , i .  e .  the usa and france .  this can only go wrong .  even if maggies revenge schemes are at times shocking , you just can't sympathize with a man who plays " je t'aime . . . moi  non plus " on his tape deck .  not everyone is captured by the french charme that linda and even maggie fell for .  sam certainly isn't .  too bad for anton .  for him things take a turn to the worse .   " addicted to love " is one of this year's most pleasant surprises . 
neg@ this is an adaptation of h . g . wells' acclaimed novel 'the invisible man' .  the actors are kevin beacon and elizabeth shue .  the director is paul verhoven .  that , plus a quick demonstration of the amazing special effects in the trailer , should be enough to lure us into the theatre .  the problem is to keep us there .  i can't imagine anyone who would like to see this movie a second time .  working on a top secret military project , sebastian caine ( kevin beacon ) -- an eccentric genius , that calls himself " god " , has discovered the secret to invisibility .  the first two faces are completed .  now , it is time for " the next logical step " -- human .  caine volunteers for this risky experiment .  but when he is made invisible , something goes wrong .  while his ex-girlfriend linda ( elisabeth shue ) desperately tries to find something to return him to normal , he learns that invisibility is more of a prison than a superpower .  but that's not the bad thing -- an unexpected side-effect of the drug sends him careening into paranoid megalomania .  he is naturally given a couple of modest superpowers , just enough for him to survive immolation from a flame thrower and an explosion of about a quart of nitroglycerine .  soon every sense of decency is forgotten .  the little intelligence that was left disappears as verhoven looses control and the film turns into an alien-rip-off , where caine is walking like a half finished terminator , spooking , scaring and killing everybody .  though it's based on a novel called 'the invisible man' , the title has been ironically changed to 'hollow man' that sums up the film very nicely .  this is a very silly production .  laughable , actually .  apparently verhoven's imagination doesn't stretch too far .  for him the only worthwhile reason to become invisible is so you can case the girls' locker room undetected .  it is this primitive schoolboy mentality that eventually kills the movie .  being invisible , gives you the opportunity to be who you are , to do what you want without being influenced by society .  in many ways it gives you an illusion of having a life without consequences .  the nature of man and his place in society is what the novel is truly about .  all that , the depth and true horror of the book is gone and only special effects make you remain in your seat .  caine does use his power voyeuristically in hollow man .  but since this is a modernization , in other words a dehumanization , he doesn't stop there .  he becomes a rapist .  and then , of course , a murderer .  you'll start wondering why such actors as beacon and shue found themselves in such film in the first place .  shue's talent is barely seen , josh brolin is underused and the rest of the cast suffer mostly for the lack of talent .  kevin beacon is the only one that performs gracefully .  his face is not seen for the most part of the film , and the only way he exists is as a disembodied voice .  there are times when his presence actually saves the film from being completely embarrassing .  in the end the effects are the only reason to see this film in the first place .  being probably the best technical achievement since " jurassic park " , they are absolutely amazing .  we observe the layers of skin , muscle , tissue , and bone being peeled away as a body is slowly rendered invisible .  we see a beating heart , inflating lungs , and veins pulsing with newly-pumped blood .  there are a couple of inventive shots with smoke , fire , air and water , but are a few scenes like that worth attending a movie for ?  what is truly disturbing is that with a great book , talented actors and a grand budget , this could have been so much more .  pretty much like jan de bont ( " twister " , " haunting " ) , paul verhoven has never made anything extraordinary .  he was responsible for several good films ( " basic instinct " and " starship troopers ) " and some incredibly bad films ( " showgirls " , " total recall " ) , but he has never made anything that was great .  in a way " hollow man " fits perfectly in this collection .  it's not better or worse than verhoven's average film .  he proves once again that he is incapable of handling more complex issues .  and so , instead of depth and chills , verhoven inserts some of his trademarks : stupid dialogue , and lot's of dull action with blood and naked bodies .  he even throws in some of the worst of film clich ? s - the slowly advancing fireball , the villain who comes back from the dead , etc , etc . - and tops the whole thing off with one of the most ridiculous endings of the year ( you'll be screaming " nooooo ! "  and attempt to run towards the exit in slow motion ) .  and all we can ask is why ?  the answer is simple .  though hollywood is a movie producing machine , the business of moviemaking has to be about something more than money .  it has to be about telling stories , not marketing them .  it has to be about transporting us to a different place , to dazzle us with magic and cleverness .  to make us care , to make us think and feel .  verhoven has obviously missed that point and this film is a proof of that .  it's all flesh and bones , but no soul .  a void where its imagination should be . 
pos@ jacques tati's 1953 classic " les vacances de m . hulot " ( also known as " mr . hulot's vacation , " in english ) ought to be the textbook on how to do non ? dialogue comedy in film .  the characters hardly ever speak to each other directly , and the film operates on the paper ? thin premise that monsieur hulot , played by tati himself , is awkward and clumsy and generally manages to annoy the other guests at the beach resort hotel where he is taking a week's vacation .  yet the film had me beside myself laughing more consistently than any in recent memory .  part of the reason the film works so well is the clever setup for the various gags .  slapstick has often been regarded as an unsophisticated and even crude form of comedy , but i think part of the reason for this is that it often seems forced : you can only see movie characters start running after something and then crash face-first into a pole so many times before you start to wonder what all these poles are doing there in the first place or why these people don't watch where they're going .  in " les vacances de m . hulot , " the gags build upon each other and often start out relatively low-key .  in one sequence , for example , hulot is painting the side of his small row boat on the beach when , while his back is turned , the paint can gets caught up in the oncoming waves , washes away , then comes back up on the other side of the boat .  while crossing over to get the can , hulot steps in the boat and unknowingly cracks it .  when he actually takes the boat out into the water , it breaks in half , but the two halves flip up against each other , trapping him inside as the bystanders mistake it for a shark fin and panic on the beach ensues .  tati doesn't waste a single opportunity for humor ; scenes that might have yielded one joke in most comedies are good for at least four or five in this film .  it has been said that comedy relies on frustrating the audience's expectations , and " les vacances de m . hulot " succeeds brilliantly in that area as well .  tati accomplishes this largely through a sort of deadpan understatement .  when hulot goes into a separate room during dinner and starts playing a record at defeaningly loud volume , no fights or shouting matches ensue ; instead , the waiter calmly walks in and shuts off the power in the room , disconnecting the record player and leaving a puzzled hulot sitting in the dark .  tati also uses running gags to this effect , allowing them to keep running far longer than most comedy directors would ; more often than not , we can see them coming and think , " oh , he's not going to do that again , " but , lo and behold , he does .  for example , there is a recurring joke in which hulot's noisy , sputtering car engine wakes everyone in the middle of the night as an exterior shot reveals the hotel's lights coming on one by one .  then this image turns up again in the finale , which i will not give away other than to say that involves a lot more noise in the middle of the night than a car engine could ever produce .  the ending is one of two elements that really make this a four-star film as opposed to merely an above-average , clever comedy .  as much as i was laughing during this film , i was thinking to myself occasionally that tati had to top himself at the end to really make this work as a complete viewing experience ; suffice it to say that he did .  the other important aspect is that the film never seems disdainful of its characters .  it easily could have turned the tables on hulot and had the other guests exact some kind of revenge on him ; alternatively , it could have portrayed the others as humorless curmudgeons .  instead , tati seems to regard his characters with cheerful amusement more than anything else and invites the audience to like them , however strange or irritating they might seem .   " les vacances de m . hulot " is not subtitled , but the dialogue is sparse and for the most part not terribly essential to the flow of events .  anyone with a taste for this kind of absurd humor ought to make this film their next rental from the video store .  note : " les vacances de m . hulot " was not rated by the mpaa .  it would at most receive a pg rating . 
neg@ joe versus the volcano is really one of the worse movies made in very recent memory .  the strangest thing is that you would think nothing would go wrong with it .  it has a solid cast with tom hanks & meg ryan as the lead roles .  but you can never judge a movie by its cast . . .  if there is one good thing about joe vs the volcano , it is that the plot is original .  unfortunately , it is also incredibly stupid .  the movie begins with joe ( tom hanks ) going to work .  this opening sequence is very boring and slow .  it shows joe walking to his office .  but on the way , he has to wait in a long line passing by strange and slightly depressing scenery with obnoxious lighting .  a sequence like this should take 2 minutes .  here , it takes over 5 . . .  it is obvious that joe hates his job .  at his office , one of his co-workers is meg ryan .  oddly enough , she plays 3 different roles in this movie ! !  joe leaves to go to a doctor's appointment .  his doctor informs him that he has a " brain cloud . "  this means that in a few months , he will die .  so what does joe do ?  quit his job , of course ! !  when he arrives home , joe meets an old man named graynamore ( lloyd bridges ) .  graynamore tells joe that in order to get some important mineral for his company from an island , the natives need someone to sacrifice to their volcano to please their fire god .  by a startling coincidence , the boat trip to the island takes a few months .  by the time he reaches the island , he will almost be dead from the " brain cloud " anyway , so joe agrees .  graynamore gives joe a credit card to buy everything he needs to go on this " great adventure " .  joe goes on a date with meg ryan , his co-worker .  the day before the boat trip , joe meets one of graynamore's daughters .  she is also , surprise , meg ryan .  except she looks more hippyish .  they both have dinner and the next day , joe gets driven over to his boat .  the lady that sails the boat is another one of graynamore's daughters .  and , wonder of wonders , she is also played by meg ryan .  as they sail to the island , meg ryan tells joe that the natives of the island have a craving for orange soda .  after some stupid talking scenes , they also deduce that graynamore had his doctor be the one that joe went to .  and that the " brain cloud " thing was made up ! !  they do plently of cheap special effects on the boat voyage .  joe goes fishing and catches a hammerhead shark .  this is a cheap gag that has been pulled off many times .  but , to top it off , the shark is obviously rubber and fake ! !  one night there is a storm .  a cheap-looking lightning bolt strikes the boat and everything is cast overboard .  fortunately , joe and meg ryan manage to find some of the luggage that joe brought to sail .  by pure luck , they get to the island .  since the natives like orange soda , they wear soda cans as attire ! !  stupid or what ?   ; ) before joe leaps in the volcano , he gets fed .  right before he jumps , meg ryan pleads him not to .  when joe decides to , she goes in with him because " she loves him " .  now this is where the movie should end .  but , unfortunately , the " cheesy ending " bug comes in .  the volcano blows the couple out and into the ocean where they land on joe's luggage .  they float to another part of the island as they watch lava pouring out of the volcano towards the villagers .  i give this movie a .  see it only if you're a film buff that enjoys a bad movie every now and then or if you really like tom hanks or meg ryan . . . 
pos@ frequency n . ,  the number of times a specified phenomenon occurs within a specified interval as the number of repetitions of a complete sequence of values of a periodic function per unit variation of an independent variable ? etc  don't worry .  when watching the thriller frequency , you won't have to know what the heck frequency means .  the premise , although it may sound complex , is very basic on the big screen .  a new york cop , john , ( jim caviezel ) finds a radio in his house , which allows him to communicate with his new york firefighter father , frank , ( dennis quaid ) who died thirty years ago .  immediately john warns his father that he will die trying to stop a fire in an abandoned warehouse .  when frank takes his advice and survives the accident he wasn't supposed to , the two eventually realize that by changing that one moment in the past , they have created a whole new future in which a serial killer murders john's mother and nine other women .  it is now up to john and frank to use their special connection and save thirty years ago to make present time a better place .   ( i told you that wasn't confusing ? ) .  overall , i was very pleased with frequency .  it's occasional sappy moments perfectly synchronized with its suspenseful serial killer scenes .  i usually don't buy those cheesy " i love you dad " segments in movies , but this one surprisingly satisfied me .  maybe because the plot is so creative and universal that i believed that this is how most people would act when talking to a dead relative .  frequency's creepy premise left me thinking once the film ended , what if ?  what would i do ?  would i help my own family or save a historical figure from being assasinated ?  or stop some kids from shooting other kids ?  or buy stock from yahoo ! ?   ( a character in the film does the latter with humorous consequences ) .  frequency also reminded me of the fantastic back to the future .  both share that " change the past slightly , and you'll change the future heavily " warning .  the changes between the present and the past , such as different newspaper headlines or people disappearing and reappearing in photographs , are very similar .  both are also wonderful feel-good family films that can attract to a number of generations .  the only difference worth noting is that frequency's final scene doesn't set up a possibility for a lucrative sequel already in the making .  there are some problems with the film though .  first , there is a major flaw in the story towards the end that is somewhat distracting ( email me if you have seen the movie and want to know what i think it is ) .  the plot must have confused even the filmmakers who frequently ( no pun intended ) switch from 1969 to 1999 while telling the story .  another problem is that the supporting cast , including noah emmerich and andre braugher , are underused .  while in the film , which is not enough , the aforementioned actors steal every scene they are in .  frequency was a pleasant surprise for me and the audience i saw it with who cheered at the end .  even if you know what is going to happen or if you think the preview ruined the movie for you , like it almost did for me , check this movie out .  you may be surprised as well . 
neg@ if there's one thing i just can't stand , it's a film that oozes with sentimentality .  here's a note to all film makers : films are more effective when the emotions of the characters speak for themselves .  swelling , saddening music is not a good way to tell us that the people in the film are unhappy , and that the situation is hopeless .  alas , my giant is a film that uses manipulative sentimentality so frequently and with such high intensity that i forgot as i watched it that there are other ways of getting audience members choked up .  what reminded me was that i wasn't choked up , or even the slightest bit moved , for that matter .  my giant is a forced , contrived , and conspicuously un-cute ( i detest the word " cute " but i've chosen to use it because the makers clearly wanted to create a " cute " film here ) .  it takes a premise that might have been interesting ( i liked the preview ) , and bogs it down with endless plot turns and cliches , all of which are intended to get some kind of easy emotional rise from the audience .  maybe it will work for some people .  it didn't work for me .  billy crystal plays sam cayman , an agent who , at the beginning of the film , is in romania .  he's in romania because the kid actor he made famous is doing a film .  the screenplay has him in romania so he can get fired , get in a car accident , and get saved by an enormous individual who stands almost eight feet tall .  his name is max ( gheorghe muresan ) , and sam thinks he'd be a great movie star because of his size .  subplots are as follows : sam has a son and a wife ( kathleen quinlan ) , and he's never around for them , so they move to chicago .  max is in love with a woman named lilianna who moved away from romania twenty years before the film begins .  sam convinces max to go back to america with him so they can make lots of money , and so their various subplots can all be resolved .  sam is broke .  max is dying .  pass the kleenex .  my giant , as a comedy , is only moderately funny .  it has its moments , the best of which features steven seagal making fun of himself .  in one great scene , sam gets his son on the phone to talk to seagal ; of course , his son doesn't believe that he's actually speaking to seagal , and he goes off about how bad of an actor he is ( i would quote the line i like but it would probably lose its effect ) .  crystal is always entertaining , and he has a few good lines here ( some of which are subtle throwaways that many will miss entirely ) ; often , however , he's countered by a slew of jokes that aren't funny , and cause an involuntary rolling of the eyes .  muresan is kind of fun to watch , but he just can't act very well .  quinlan , on the other hand , is a great actress who needs to get a role that shows off her talents .  she was underused last year in both event horizon and breakdown , but at least in those films she had moments in which she could show us her stuff .  here , the best thing she gets to do is fake a romanian accent .  all of these disappointing ingredients create a film that , for much of its running time , is simply mediocre .  as my giant lumbers to its inevitable conclusion , however , director michael lehmann ( who did a great job directing the underrated hudson hawk ) and scriptwriter david seltzer pile on every cliche imaginable , each one intended specifically to pull at our heartstrings .  sam's multiple engagements with his family are all completely hackneyed ( how about a main character who has a healthy relationship with his family ? ) .  later , it turns out the entire story is supposed to be a great big metaphor signifying sam's reunion with his family .  and some people might think that what sam does for max towards the end is a valiant thing , but i had a few morality problems with it ( and i apologize for being vague ) .  it's icky .  it drips with gooey , wannabe human emotions .  my giant could have been a straightforward and funny family film .  more importantly , it could have been moving on a level far deeper than it is .  instead , it's a complicated , overlong , and under-engaging film that elicits too few laughs and strives for superficial tears .  and since it left me feeling completely unmoved , i stand by my position that sentimentality is evil and will ultimately destroy the world . 
pos@ plot : a peculiar french girl grows up lonely with her father and doesn't quite know what she wants out of life .  one day , she falls upon something , and believes that her ticket to happiness may be in helping others .  she starts with the people around her , but when she suddenly falls for her own guy , she can't act strongly enough because of her shy and dreamy nature .  critique : a clever , quirky , original french flick set in a picturesque paris , featuring an endearing lead with a giant imagination , much loneliness and a little bit of love for everyone .  this is a " feel-good " kind of movie , a fairy tale for grown-ups who are bummed out about life .  it doesn't pretend to be deep , it doesn't weigh itself down with long expositions or intricate studies of its characters , it's basically just a " cute movie " in the same vein as chocolat and pay it forward , with some amazing visuals and incredibly nice intentions ( and if chocolat was somehow able to nab an oscar nomination for best picture last year ( a sham on so many different levels ) , you might as well slap this film up for consideration also , since it's quite a bit better and much more original than the former ) .  one thing that this film isn't though , at least according to me , is the best film of the year ( it was bestowed the honor of " best " in at least 3 different film festivals so far this year ) .  it actually managed to stagnate a little bit about halfway through and it just went on for way too long ( it's a little over two hours but it felt even longer ) , with much of the second half of the movie devoted to many different characters , all of whom weren't as interesting as the lead , and a lot of indecisiveness from ms . amelie herself , which got frustrating .  thankfully , this film doesn't bog itself down with too much of that stuff , and actually goes out of its way to invent new ways to shoot scenes , to integrate moments of fantasy into its fabric and to transport the audience inside the imagination of this kind-hearted french girl .  on the whole , it's a lot of fun and it carries a beautiful message of love and support for your fellow man .  the lead , audrey tautou , is perfect for the role , and gives you enough moments of truth to develop her character into someone that you care about by the end of the film .  unfortunately , the rest of the cast isn't as well-developed , and even though most of them are pretty appealing , a couple could've been left out to save time and at least one was left stranded plot-wise , by the film's end ( what happened to the guy in the caf ? who was spying on his ex-girlfriend the whole movie ? ) .  now i haven't seen too many recent french films , i will admit , but if this is the kind of " scene " that they're developing over in " le pays du vin " , i wouldn't mind catching more of their flicks in the future ( crimson rivers was another french film that i saw earlier this year , which i really liked- ironically , that film was directed by mathieu kassovitz , who is the co-star in this film ) .  granted , the english subtitles got a little tough to keep up with at times ( i speak and understand french also , but some of the local colloquialisms went over my head ) , especially since the film's visuals were so intriguing that you just couldn't help but constantly gawk at them , but the general idea , the background music , the nifty french neighborhoods , the very creative way of enveloping the audience into the story-line from the start , were all very easy to appreciate , and i for one was especially glad to have seen this movie during these trying times in the world .  in fact , i'd recommend it to anyone looking for a jolly ol' time at the movie house , with a particular emphasis on folks with a lot of imagination , a little loneliness in their lives and many dreams in their hearts .  and this guy directed alien : resurrection ?  get outta here ! !  note : i especially loved the way that the script detailed and showed the loves/hates of everyone with exact mentions in the film .  it was very original , very well shot and very nostalgic , as many of us were able to relate to the behaviors described .  good stuff !  where's joblo coming from ?  chocolat ( 6/10 ) - crimson rivers ( 8/10 ) - ghost world ( 9/10 ) - like water for chocolate ( 8/10 ) - o brother , where art thou ( 7/10 ) - pay it forward ( 5/10 ) - rushmore ( 9/10 ) - woman on top ( 7/10 ) 
neg@ and now the high-flying hong kong style of filmmaking has made its way down to the classics , and it isn't pretty .  this time out the nod to asia goes by way of france in the excruciating bland and lukewarm production of the musketeer , a version of dumas's the three musketeers .  by bringing in popular asian actor/stunt coordinator xing xing xiong -- whose only prior american attempts at stunt choreography have been the laughable van damme vehicle double team and the dennis rodman cinematic joke simon sez -- our musketeers are thrown into the air to do their fighting .  the end result is a tepid and dull action/adventure rip-off that stinks of indiana jones and bad asian kung fu .  the story is so simple my grandmother could have adapted the screenplay .  d'artagnan ( justin chambers ) is the vengeful son of a slain musketeer .  he travels to paris to join the royal musketeers and find the man that killed his parents .  in paris , he meets the cunning cardinal richelieu ( stephen rea ) , who is trying to overthrow the king , and richelieu's man-in-black associate febre ( tim roth ) , the killer of his folks .  he finds the musketeers in paris disbanded and drunk , so he rounds up aramis ( nick moran ) , athos ( jan gregor kremp ) and porthos ( steven spiers ) to free the musketeer's wrongfully imprisoned leader treville from the king's prison .  d'artagnan and his new frisky love interest/chambermaid francesca ( mena suvari ) play footsy and coo at each other as the cardinal hunts down the musketeers until finally the queen ( catherine deneuve ) ends up being captured by the menancing febre , forcing the musketeers to regroup , with d'artagnan leading the charge , and save the day .  director peter hyams ( end of days ) obviously wanted to blend eastern and western filmmaking styles , but here it's a disaster .  one problem is that , in reality , most eastern films have taken their lead from western ones .  jet li's high risk is a rip-off of die hard -- not the other way around .  ironically , there is awfully little swordplay or action in the film at all -- maybe ten minutes of swashbuckling spread over five scenes .  most asian action films carry the bulk of their production with 20- to 30-minute action sequences , because they know the scenes have to carry the picture .  the musketeer instead weighs itself down with a predictable and monotonous screenplay by gene quintano ( sudden death ) , horrible acting by stephen rea and tim roth , and the prosaic attempt of justin chambers ( the wedding planner ) to deliver his mousy self as a leader .  chambers' d'artangnan isn't a musketeer -- he's a mouseketeer !  and hyam's use of candles and torches to light the grime and filth of 17th century paris are well-noted , but that's the only standout in an overall flat production . 
pos@ one of the funniest carry on movies and the third with a medical setting .  the main story is about dr . james nookey ( jim dale ) who is disliked by his superiors , frederick carver , head of the hospital ( kenneth williams ) , and dr . ernest stoppidge ( charles hawtrey ) who seems to dislike everyone .  they attempt to cause him as much trouble in the hospital as possible and all the blame is laid on nookey .  carver learns of a possible job opportunity from wealthy ellen moore ( joan sims ) on a distant tropical island and gets nookey trannsferred there .  when nookey arrives at this island , he meets gladstone screwer ( sid james ) who has lived on the island just about all his life .  screwer is in possession of a wonderful slimming drug made from natural ingredients .  dr . nookey returns with the drug to england and sets up a new slimming business with ellen moore's financial backing .  however , nookey and moore face opposition from screwer who goes to england to cash in on the drug , and carver and stoppidge who want to know the ingredients to create a rival drug .  the performances are all very commendable .  sid james has a slightly ambiguous character to play this time and he excels in his role .  kenneth williams , as usual , plays the unpopular and cunning head of the hospital .  joan sims is entertaining as the wealthy benefactor and jim dale should really head the cast with his excellent portrayal of bumbling nookey .  charles hawtrey plays an 'out-of-character' role as dr . stoppidge , the nasty and evil practitioner who wants to knock nookey off his perch .  some critics have said that this combination of hawtrey and stoppidge does not work well , but i think that it at least gives hawtrey a new part to play instead of the usual dimwit characters .  as a matter of fact , hawtrey is suitably cunning in the part .  other regulars in the movie include hattie jacques as the matron yet again ( but this part is probably her most boring 'matron' ) and barbara windsor as nookey's love interest and unofficial 'women's lib' campaigner , goldie locks .  both jacques and windsor play their parts well .  patsy rowlands appears briefly as miss fosdick , and there are very small cameos from wilfrid brambell ( from 'steptoe and son' fame ) and peter butterworth .  the jokes are mostly very funny , the story is quite appealing , and the regulars seem interested in what they're doing .  although it is another medical carry on movie and some of the jokes are borrowed from previous movies , it still comes out on top ( it is the best medical carry on ) because of the above factors .  a must-see carry on movie . 
neg@ the new austin powers film continues a movie tradition begun in the eighties .  produce something , anything , that will get the high school and junior high kids in the theater because they buy more soda and popcorn than senior citizens .  the usual hallmarks of this filmmaking tradition are all here .  gross humor , sex jokes , silly sight gags , more sex jokes .  and the film is a strong contender in the current race to be cruder , grosser and more outrageous than that last film .  what the film is not , however , is funny .  the plot centers around the return of dr . evil , who goes back in time to steal austin powers' mojo ( a liquid with red stuff in it extracted from austin's pelvis ) which gives austin his sexual prowess and the charisma to defeat his enemies .  austin must go after him , and returns to the swinging sixties where free love and sexy secret agents had their heyday .  i almost avoided this film because i did not like the original .  but the films premise sounded like an excellent comic vehicle and the film received many good reviews .  i wish i had stuck to my first impression .  myers is trying to be the jerry lewis of this generation .  and he has the talent to do it , at least as an actor .  but the material he is working with here , much of it his own , falls short of anything resembling comic genius .  this movie tries to carry the day with sight gags about drinking distilled feces , a five-hundred-pound fat man's butt crack , and a barrage of sex jokes aimed at the level of the average 15 year old .  after some of these scenes , one has to wonder how gross the next generation of films will have to go to get an audiences attention .  the direction also helps the film achieve a new low point in cinematic humor .  for the most part , i felt as if i was watching a saturday morning chalderns live action tv show .  there is no sense of comic timing or subtlety .  the director just throws the material at us , giving us nothing except the hope that anyone with a camera could be a film director .  i am sure the film will have appeal to many of the under 22 crowd , at least the one's who have yet to discover literacy .  certainly the movie is directed towards the generation that prefers everything described as 'in your face , kick you in the teeth , take no prisoners , ( action-verb +blah blah blah ) . '  if you see the film and you find you're not laughing , there is nothing wrong with you .  it just means you grew up since seventh grade . 
pos@ magnolia left me relling from the theatre , staggering from the relentless assault of an adventurous director reveling in his craft .  at nearly three and a half hours , magnolia will strike some as a brute of a film .  it not only demands your attention , but challenges you to grasp the significance of seemingly unrelated storylines and hidden intentions .  it is delirious , depressing , heady , pretentious , surreal filmmaking .  it's also a movie that will polarize its viewers .  director paul thomas anderson takes a talented cast , wraps them in a net of interrelated stories and sets them spinning in a symphony of despair whose song doesn't let up until an oddly exhilerating , biblically influenced pseudo-climax .  the character's make up a modern day gomorrah in the soulless way in which they live their lives .  there is frank mackey ( tom cruise ) , a slithery snake charmer of men whose " search and destroy " seminars teach how to mentally rape a woman to get into her pants .  there is earl partridge ( jason robards ) , a dying media tycoon yearning to make amends for a lfe of callousness by finding his estranged son .  there is game show host jimmy gator ( phillip baker hall ) , a self absorbed tv icon who is hiding more than a few secrets from his public .  and there is police officer jim kurring ( john c . reilly ) , who cloaks himself in the codification of organized religion and the legal system , perhaps masking a man who needs rules to fuel his decision making process .  given equal weight are stories involving a coke-addled emotional cripple ( melora walters ) , a former tv quiz show champion ( william h . macy ) .  a materialistic , adulterous wife ( julianne moore ) , a child ( jeremy blackman ) victimized by a mentally abusive parent , and a caring , empathetic nurse ( philip seymour hoffman ) .  hovering over all these characters is a cloud of death , lies and despair .  it is not a pleasant movie .  there is not one bad note in the acting .  it is affecting and layered and wonderful .  there is a moment where tom cruise wordlessly implodes that rivals work he has done in whole films .  then he tops himself with a mesmerizing deathbed scene .  walters plays her character with red-eyed rawness and a fierce self-destructiveness that is anxiety inducing .  robards convincingly portrays a fading whisper of a man , who still hears a lion's roar when he speaks .  director anderson has apparently given the actors lattitude to emote .  the problem is that he stays on them too long .  julianne moore's character , linda , quickly escalates to a frenzied pitch of guilt , tears , screaming and remorse and never backs off from it .  after a few hours , it turns from interesting to chinese water torture .  quite a few scenes , such as the game show , go on just a bit too long and will be off-putting for those used to a pat 90 minute film where the main theme is reiterated several times just in case you missed it the first go around .  and just what is the theme ?  alienation ?  hopelessness ?  anderson challenges you to draw your own conclusions and he doesn't make it easy .  the film starts by showing three , strange and seemingly unrelated events .  it's a harbinger of the synchronicity to come .  at times , different stories reach reach key moments at the same time .  other times , stories seem to veer off into uncharted territory , regardless of what else is happening .  anderson is audacious enough to even have a group sing in the middle of the film !  what's surprising is that it mostly works .  if you have doubts about anderson's intentions , i'll ask you to pay attention to the final frame .  despite all the sturm und drang , magnolia ultimately speaks to man's capacity for hope and attempts at redemption .  despite magnolia's needlessly long running time and its propensity for uneven editing as anderson plays the auteur , showing off fro the masses , i have to admire his guts .  this is truly adventurous filmmaking that spits in the face of conventional storytelling .  my rating : a bulleye .   ( stars )  a side note : helping anchor the film is a perfectly matched soundtrack featuring aimee mann .  her lyrics often add depth to a scene thematically while the actual music is both morose and beautiful .  when she sings " save me " at the end , it enhances the yearning felt by the characters , just as " wise up " mirrors the anguish felt by all as they contemplate their lives . 
neg@ synopsis : blond criminal psychologist sarah chooses to copulate with greasy tony the mysterious puerto rican rather than bearded cliff the wisecracking neighbor upstairs .  in the meantime , someone sends sarah rotting flowers , puts her name in the newspaper's obituary column , and kills her cat .  comments : never talk to strangers , a colossal waste of time , moves slower than molasses in winter to arrive at a conclusion which should be obvious to the audience 20 minutes into the film .  one wouldn't think that two genuine movie stars , antonio banderas ( evita ) and rebecca de mornay ( hand that rocks the cradle ) , and the acerbic comic genius dennis miller ( " saturday night live " ) would be involved in such a celluloid backfire as this turkey .  not only are they in it , however , but de mornay executive produced it .  what was she thinking ?  never talk to strangers centers upon sarah , a psychologist examining the ill-tempered max , a murderer soon to stand trial .  she receives a sudden visit from her father which elicits flashbacks of some tragedy in her early childhood .  two men woo her ; tony the " security consultant " wins her over ( so they have passionate sex replete with cheesy saxophone music ) .  a lot of psychobabble is thrown around about multiple personality disorder , but the movie asks its audience not to derive the obvious conclusion between mpd and sarah , and instead offers several male characters as red herrings .  86 minutes , the running time of this cinematic mess , thus , seem like 86 hours .  a good chunk of never talk to strangers is spent upon sarah and tony .  why would the career-minded , professional sarah feel attracted to the walking steroid with a black hat called tony ?  that's one of the film's mysteries which are never answered .  regardless of motive , de mornay and banderas strip down and have sex several times in what passes for eroticism .  they also manage to go out before copulating occasionally -- in one of the stupidest scenes of the film , tony takes sarah to a carnival that's * right outside * his dingy apartment ( that way , they can hurry back and have sex quickly ) .  also , apparently , the weather changes quickly in their locale : they're at this outdoor carnival one day before having sex ; the next day , they're out playing in the snow before having sex .  the filmmakers attempt to produce a suspenseful plot interspersed with tony and sarah's " character development . "  someone is out to get poor sarah ( though most of the audience should have figured out who before any of this starts ) .  rotting flowers , a writeup in the obituary , and a beaten neighbor are just a few of the bad things which happen to her .  suspense cliche number one also occurs : whenever someone is stalked in thrillers , by any means , if the stalked has a pet , that pet will die .  oftentimes , to even further the cliche , the murdered pet is a cat ( suspense filmmakers , for some reason , just don't like cats ) .  sarah , in never talk to strangers , receives a package and , lo and behold , discovers her mutilated cat within .  suspense at its very derivative !  as stated before , never talk to strangers is a poor excuse for a film whose sole purpose seems to be exploiting banderas and de mornay's bodies as often as possible .  comedian dennis miller is completely wasted here ( he's not given lines that are suitable for his persona ) and doesn't even appear all that much .  maybe , in a way , he's lucky for that .  early on in the movie , sarah tells tony , after meeting him in a supermarket , that she had been advised to never talk to strangers .  allow me to advise that you never watch this stinker . 
pos@ seen february 15 , 1998 on home video ( borrowed from chris wessell ) .  when it comes to modern gangster movies , it's really difficult to describe and review them without making comparisons to other films of the genre and/or just using the word " routine . "  i've always subscribed to the philosophy that any idea ( no matter how many times it's been used before ) can provide for a good story and " donnie brasco " clinches this idea .  it's not unlike most of the great films of the genre , yet it never apes another's style as it has a good layer of authenticity , even if its core is a tad stale .  the film starts off in typical fashion by defining its atmosphere of new york city in the late 1970s and the mobsters who inhibit it .  we meet lefty ( pacino ) , an aging wiseguy who can still walk the walk and talk the talk .  he and his associates go through the generic motions you expect to see in crime films like this .  somehow he comes across donnie brasco ( depp ) , a younger guy with a lot of spunk who isn't afraid of lefty and his rep , and even manages to befriend him after lefty was ready to kill him .  it's clear donnie is new to the life and lefty recognizes this immediately , telling him all the tricks of the trade .  i have never seen this technique of actually revealing the mafioso idiosyncrasies done before and for this the film deserves credit .  however , we soon realize donnie is actually joe pistone , an fbi agent working undercover - a character who symbolizes the viewer as he will soon be purged into the lifestyle and treated as a newcomer .  the first act works as a guided to ot of rhetoric about wiseguy honor , a brief history of the mob , definitions of their slang , and where their money comes from and who it goes to .  the screenplay is rather sketchy on the details surrounding these elements , however , the fact they are mentioned at all is quite original .  most gangster movies seem to be made with the notion the viewer already knows how the mob works ( probably from watching other gangster movies ) , and although this attitude comes across , the film tries to fill in all the holes where and when it can and the effort is appreciable .  thankfully the film doesn't become too caught up in the tedious details of organized crime , and instead opts for character development .  much of the story is told simply through the interaction between lefty and donnie .  pacino is outstanding here as the pathetic hood who speaks of his job in the same manner any blue collar worker would .  he's old and exhausted but seems to enjoy what he does , just as anyone loyal to the same employer for over 30 years might be .  we learn of his accomplishments , which are quite impressive within their context , and when he complains about not being made top boss , it's easy to sympathize with him .  newell constantly plays up this aspect , making it a major theme which works well in the long run .  as donnie is constantly impressing and even one-upping lefty , it's hard to tell which emotion is more powerful : the fact donnie is getting closer to nailing the mob ; or the fact lefty has once again been over shadowed .  most of the film tells the story of donnie's life in mafia , which creates for many sub-plots and individual conflicts , but doesn't always seem to come together as a whole .  the storytelling is genuinely interesting throughout , even when the motions the characters go through seem familiar .  the resonance to donnie's actual assignment varies , he often reports back to the feds with detail of his progress , but it doesn't always seem to have much meaning .  back home , his wife maggie ( heche ) is ready to divorce him because he's never a and the family is suffering .  since this is based on a true story i wouldn't doubt this would happen , although the way it is handled often borders on the melodramatic .  my only major complaint is the film seems to have no final act , or at least any real sense of closure .  a climax of sorts does occur , but there's little feeling of a payoff .  we get a happy ending , which is good , but perhaps a sad ending would have been more powerful .  aside from a few minor , general flaws , " donnie brasco " manages to be a solid piece of storytelling and character development .  it may be routine , but it's good , and that's respectful . 
neg@ confucius once said , " governing a nation is like cooking a small fish -- don't overdo it . "  his maxim might be easily applied to writing a comedy script , for quantity over quality is one of the worst mistakes an amateur scribe can make .  granted , mike judge , writer-director of the workplace satire office space isn't exactly an amateur ( his most infamous work , the mtv series " beavis and butt-head " was pure gold for its network ) .  but unfailingly , judge manages to make some rather inexcusable mistakes in office space by spreading an iffy plot over too much ground .  the iffiness in judge's plot -- a group of coworkers plan the downfall of their despicable boss -- is not in its appeal .  in fact , based on the popularity of scott adams' cartoon " dilbert , " which will soon have its own television series , a satirical view of the american workplace is a hot item in hollywood .  unfortunately the concept lends itself to skit-length sequences which would be more at home on the set of " saturday night live " rather than a full-length feature .  the most convincing evidence of this are the trailers for office space , which feature almost all of the movie's top content ; this leaves the actual picture appearing very deflated .  other evidence of office space's failure to work are its lack of good jokes .  the comedy is marginally funny at best , but not enough to get a packed house of theater-goers to laugh out loud .  the material in the movie is on-key for an older demographic than judge is used to targeting , and this could partially explain his work here .  however , the movie is loaded with too many misfires -- including the token plot -- to allow for any excuse .  the plot centers around three or four cubicled engineers , headed up by peter gibbons ( ron livingston ) , at a company named initech .  after the movie elaborately establishes the miserable working conditions at initech , the movie introduces us to two consultants ( john c . mcginley and paul willson ) which are in charge of " downsizing " the company's payroll .  when peter and his gang learns of this , as well as the reason behind it -- so their smooth talking boss bill lumbergh ( gary cole ) 's stock will go up -- they set about creating a plan to see his downfall .  the circumstances that follow were obviously intended to be hilarious but they come out as anything but .  a sympathetic cast and a muddled jennifer aniston-as-love-interest subplot are all that keep this one together , but it's definitely missable in lieu of something more intelligent . 
pos@ the 1998 summer movie season is still in its infancy .  but after diasappointing films such as " godzilla " and " fear and loathing in las vegas " , it would be nice to see a really good film .  but i doubt you could have expected this .  the truman show is one of the most unique films i have ever seen , and it deserves a spot on the " decade's best " list .  there is no way to isolate any single component of this picture and proclaim , " yes , that's what makes this film great . "  the blend of peter weir's masterful ( and in many ways brilliant ) direction , peter biziou's stunning photography and jim carrey's performance is what makes this film work so fantastically .  there is something strangely beautiful about every shot in the truman show .  it may be the use of color or the placement of characters in the frame , but everything about this film looks intentional and perfect .  carrey has made a very wise choice .  by playing mild-mannered truman burbank , he allows himself enough room to be comical , and therefore not alienating his true fans , while still showing a vulnerable and human side .  that is a side which has been missing from nearly every major character he has played in his numerous commercial successes .  truman burbank was born to an audience of millions .  he was chosen before birth to be the focus of a 24 hour television show .  everything in his environment is controlled by a team of technicians , led by the show's director , christof ( played by ed harris ) .  everyone in truman's life is an actor or an extra .  they are all being watched by millions of people around the globe , people who can tune in at any time of the day to see what is happening in truman's life .  but he is the only person that is not aware of it .  the classification of the truman show may be tricky .  the audience reacted to many of truman's revelations with laughter .  i did not laugh much during the film because i was so emotionally wrapped up with the character .  the things that made the audience laugh gave me glassy eyes , because what was happening to him , indeed what had been done to him his whole life was wrong .  so is this going to end up labeled as a comedy ?  a drama ?  it really depends on the audience .  but to me , the truman show was a touching , sad tale about the extents to which a corporation will go to exploit human life for the entertainment of others .  but above all else , the truman show was a stunningly beautiful picture with humor , heart and scary realism .  oscar predictions in june are pointless , but if the truman show had been released on schedule in late fall or winter of 1997 , as originally planned , james cameron would be oscar-less . 
neg@ poster boy for co-dependency needs patching  patch adams a film review by michael redman copyright 1999 by michael redman  mediocrity is a pox on civilization .  in our heavily consumer oriented society , there is an enormous demand to churn out " stuff . "  what would happen to our economy if we didn't feel the need to have more things ?  to make us buy more , businesses need to produce a ton of product .  the sheer volume of items necessitates that most of them are of dubious quality .  the film industry is like any other .  in order for studios to survive , they have to make money .  the prevailing attitude is that more films equal more profit .  some movies obviously exist only to put wares on the screen and to do that , less talented people are used .  there aren't enough great directors and actors to create the number of films necessary .  for some reason , it's never crossed anyone's mind that the real equation is quality films = more profit .  often , mediocre films are more of a pain for the audience than the horrendous ones .  at you can have a good time making fun of bad movies .  i'm not suggesting that " patch adams " was tossed out just to rake in the bucks .  my guess is that someone was asleep at the wheel .  it features an accomplished actor and a potentially engrossing story , but it's as dull as could be .  hunter " patch " adams' ( robin williams ) desire to become a doctor has an unusual genesis .  checking himself into a mental institute after a suicide attempt , he discovers that he can help the other patients by clowning around .  patch could be a poster boy for co-dependency .  he explains that he likes devoting himself to others because then he doesn't focus on his own problems .  he decides that he wants to be a physician , leaves the place and a couple of years later enrolls in the medical college of virginia .  as a med student , patch's antics at the school's hospital catch the attention of his soon to be arch-enemy , straight-laced dean walcott ( bob gunton ) .  the dean is so opposed to the goofiness that he wants patch kicked out of school although he's one of the top students .  he writes in patch's academic file that he shows " excessive happiness . "  i walked into the film knowing little about its history and wondered about its odd mechanical pacing .  there also seemed to be no reason that it is set in the early seventies .  then it struck me .  it must be based on a true story .  the movie is an adaptation of a book by hunter adams who founded the gesundheit institute , a free clinic .  robin williams is an amazing actor .  while he is adept at dramatic roles , his forte is over-the-top free spirits .  that's what makes his failure here so remarkable .  patch is exactly the character he should be best at , yet even the scene where he and another mental patient are battling fierce imaginary squirrels falls flat .  something holds him back .  most of the rest of the cast is two-dimensional .  for a film that champions seeing patients as human beings , it's curious that the ones here are cardboard characters .  peter coyote as a man dying of cancer is refreshing because he seems like a real person .  unfortunately he's in the film for only about two minutes .  the audience is blatantly lead by a ring in its nose from scene to scene .  we're not left to our own emotional decisions : we're hit over the head with them .  shaved-headed children with cancer , an elderly woman whom patch makes laugh , a beautiful woman who can't love because of her abusive history .  when a group of students fix up an old house to use as a clinic in the andy hardy " hey , let's put on a play !  we can use the barn and my mom can make the curtains ! "  mode , they laugh and roll around while painting each other .  there might as well be giant signs flashing : " feel good now ! "   " feel bad now ! "   " patch " is a good title for the film .  it is a patchwork of every manipulative scene you can think of .  the full-of-life student fights stodgy establishment types .  there's a touching death .  then there's another .  the film doesn't trust us to get it the first time .  the dean tries to kick patch out and later he tries again .  worst of all is the final courtroom bit .  scary-looking old men sit in judgment of a man who only wants to help people .  the room is packed with patch's supporters .  williams makes a supposedly impassioned speech about the humanity of all .  it has as much emotion as his earlier statement " humans are the only animal that kills members of its own species " contains truth .  most of the blame must be placed with the director tom shadyac and screenwriter steve oedekerk .  shadyac also directed the first " ace ventura " movie .  oedekerk directed the second one .  need i say more ?  the real adams is to be admired for his devotion to treating patients as people rather than diseases .  the film has a number of worthy messages about the state of the modern medical business with hmos and managed care .  the " doctors are not gods " theme will resonate with a number of people , but it's so poorly produced that no one will care . 
pos@ the heist of a flawless , 84 carat diamond , fixed bare knuckle fights , irish gypsies and a dog are just some of the goings on in director guy ritchies's sophomore feature , " snatch . "   " lock , stock and two smoking barrels " intro'd helmer/scripter ritchie with a hyper-kinetic , in your face underworld comedy that grabbed the viewer's attention from beginning to end .  his protagonists were innocents set adrift in a see of sharks to swim or be eaten alive .  with " snatch , " the director doesn't remake his first work , but he does delve more deeply into the criminal underbelly of london , mining a rich collection of characters in the process .  >from the very beginning , " snatch " tosses you into the action with the theft of the fabulous diamond , the desire of new york gangster avi ( dennis farina ) .  en route from antwerp , diamond thief and courier frankie four fingers ( benicio del toro ) stops in london to make a separate deal with avi's partner and cousin , doug " the head " ( mike reid ) .  frankie's addiction to gambling tempts him into making a bet on an illegal boxing match for boris " the blade " ( rade sherbedgia ) , a ruthless russian mobster .  the bet turns out to be a setup for a robbery by a trio of bumbling incompetents - vinnie ( robbie gee ) , sol ( lennie james ) and portly tyrone ( ade ) - that goes miserably awry .  meanwhile , a couple of young toughs , turkish ( jason stratham ) and tommy ( stephen graham ) , are trying to break in to the boxing game with the help of local villain brick top ( alan ford ) , who also owns a pig farm .  when their first fighter is put out of action , with one punch , by a wild irish gypsy named mickey o'neil , they figure to put the loose canon in as the contender in a fixed fight .  mickey proves less than reliable and goes against turkish and tommy's deal .  brick top , impressed by mickey's performance , decides to gives them another chance - after calmly explaining that it takes 16 pigs about eight minutes to completely devour a corpse .  when avi doesn't get his precious rock , he jumps on a plane for london and hires a local legend , " bullet tooth " tony ( vinnie jones ) , to find frankie and the diamond .  things spiral out of control as all these forces head on a collision course of double-cross and double-deals - and a dog that ate a squeaky toy .  guy ritchie ( mr . madonna to some ) is an extraordinarily talented auteur who has a wonderful knack for pulling together his unique collection of cast and crew and feeding them funny and gritty dialog that spews out of the characters' mouths like machine gun fire .  the helmer marshals his large ensemble actors in a frantically paced caper comedy that makes you laugh and feel queasy at the same time , the above description by brick top being just one example .  the assemblage of actors and non-actors in rough-and-tumble settings gives " snatch " an earthy feel in its depiction of london's criminal underworld .  the cast of characters is too large to credit here , but two of the performances - first among equals , you might say - are worth noting .  alan ford is brilliant as the ruthless , evil brick top .  when he refuses sugar in his tea because " i'm sweet enough , " it makes you shiver , even as you laugh .  his is one of the best gangster characters i've seen in years .  the other outstanding perf is given by none other than brad pitt , the name actor the movie's popularity may hang upon , at least initially .  pitt , as mickey o'neil , is hard drinking , hard fighting , highly unreliable and nearly incomprehensible with a unique irish brogue and dialect of the pikers , the irish travelers of europe .  this gypsy brigand would steal the fillings from your teeth , especially if it would benefit his beloved mum ( sorcha cusack ) .  when brick top threaten the safety of mickey's family , he makes an enemy that cannot be stopped .  pitt puts a credible spin on his character and does some incredible physical stuff , too , as a bare-knuckle boxer .  the production team behind the camera includes ritchie alumni , producer matthew vaughn and lenser tim maurice-jones , and other talented technical artist that bring the hyperactive imagination of the author to visual life .  there is a patent feel to the look of " snatch " and " lock , stock and two smoking barrels " that reeks of " signature " for ritchie , but i'm not sure how this will translate in his future works .  there is so much talent in the filmmaker that i would like to see him branch out in other directions .  nonetheless , " snatch " is terrific sophomore effort , a darn good action comedy and a hoot to boot .  i give it a b+ . 
neg@ the above is dialogue from this film , taken almost completely in context , and not jazzed up a bit to make it more inept than it is .  it is spoken between two of the protagonists somewhere in the film , and basically serves as a perfect example of what this film is about , especially if you realize that this exchange is meant to be taken seriously .  mr . gregg " i'm-having-a-mid-life-crisis " araki , the writer and director of this film , wants to show how important teenagers are , and wants to show how they feel in such a horrible , horrible world .  and how does he show it ?  by really cheap surrealism , and moronic exchanges like this .  oh , and it gets better .  a similar bit of dialogue is said in the middle of , oh i dunno , the fiftieth sex scene in this film ( i'm not counting the several masturbation scenes ) .  in it , one of the protagonists is humping away on top of another , and he says to her something along the lines of " do you ever wonder what life is all about ? "  sorry , man : foreplay takes place before the act of coitus .  of course , what do you expect : the film was written and directed by a guy who can't even spell his first name right ( yes , i know it's a cheap joke , but it had to be done ) .   " the doom generation " is advertised as a road trip movie about people who go around killing others who attack them , and also as another " teen angst " film ( one of the slogans is " teen is a four-letter word " - hardy har har ) .  it's a film about two angsty teens - amy blue ( rose macgowan , who would later play the buxom tatum in " scream " ) and jordon white ( james duval , who would go on to play randy quaid's son in " independence day " ) - who pick up an angsty homicidal maniac , xavier red ( jonathan schaech , who would go on to play the angsty lead guitarist in " that thing you do ! "  - and by the way , do you get the symbolism ?  red , white , and blue ?  huh ?  huh ? ) , and go on a road trip where three things happen , in no order : 1 ) they have sex ; 2 ) they run into weird people ; 3 ) they kill them .  the film is basically a remix of a bunch of other far superior films .  gregg araki obviously has seen such films as " easy rider , " " natural born killers , " and " kalifornia , " and tries to borrow elements from all these films and make something which is like a pop culture reference guide .  but what he forgets is these films either represented something that this film does not , or that they dug deep into their subjects and brought something out of them to make them deeper .   " the doom generation " doesn't want to do this ; it just wants to show everything in a surreal manner for the sole reason that araki does not want to deal with them on any kind of real level .  he wants to show everything in a weird manner , and forgets what the scenes are supposed to be about .  here's one scene , an earlier scene in the film : amy and jordan go into a quick-e mart type place to get food and other stuff .  amy is smoking , and the clerk , an asian man mind you ( i love how racist this film is , i really do ) , tells her to put it out .  she tells him to fuck off or something to that note .  he points a shotgun at her , and she puts it out reluctantly .  jordan makes two hot dogs , and takes them to the counter .  the cash register rings up " 6 . 66 "   ( oh , and this symbolism doesn't stop here ) .  jordan checks for his wallet but it's really in the car .  he asks amy for it , but she left her wallet in the car as well .  the clerk brings out his shotgun again and asks for the money .  they say they don't have it .  he gets ready to kill them , but then xavier , who they ditched in the middle of nowhere a scene before , pops out of nowhere , fights with the clerk , and ends with him blowing the clerk's head clean off ( clean wound , mind you ) .  the head is shown flying through the air , and lands in a fryer , where it begins to scream .  i don't really object to this kind of sick violence , but this scene is in the film for one reason and one reason only : to gross you out .  araki thinks that if he takes everything to the extreme , he'll make some kind of art .  wrong .  it takes a kind of resistance to make gore art .  when george romero made " dawn of the dead , " a very gory flick even for today , he had control over everything and still was able to make everything sick .  same goes for peter jackson's disgustingly gory " dead alive , " which features a 30 minute long fest of blood , guts , dismemberments , flesh chewing , and other assorted stuff , all ending with a guy with a lawn mower strapped to his body , taking out all sorts of zombies .  it was sick , but it was also satirical , and controled .  a scene like this has no purpose in the film , and it sticks out from everything else that happens .  here's a couple other scenes : jordan and amy have sex in a bath tub and xavier watches , masturbates , and then licks the semen from his hand ; xavier and amy have sex and jordan watches from the window , masturbates , and falls backwards ; a man attacks the trio , and is stabbed in the crotch by a giant sword ( put there just so this could happen ) ; a fast food employee stalks the trio , and his arm is shot off by xavier ; and various other annoyances .  also , look for about a million camoes from a wide assortment of people , who probably didn't really know what they were getting into when they signed up to do it ( just like peter o'toole , helen mirren , malcolm macdowell , and john gielgud probably didn't when they signed to be in " caligula " ) .  people such as indie actors parker posey and nicky katt , alternative rock stars skinny puppy and perry farrel , hollywood madam heidi fleiss , christopher " peter brady " mcknight , amanda bearse , and margaret cho all grace the screen for a matter of seconds , then disappear so that we can return to the annoying main plot line .  why are they here ?  so that we can all point to them and say " hey , look it's ( fill in the blank ) !  wow ! "  gimme a break .  the film's meaning is pretty easy to detect : that , you know , teens are so precious , and the world is such a horrible place , that when the two entities collide , there's a giant explosion of horrific violence .  otherwise defined as " teen angst , " or the belief that being a teenager is a horrible thing and that the world is too bad for you .  look , i'm 19 years old .  i went through a very brief teen angst thing which curiously lasted about as long as my taste in nirvana did .  i've since moved on to " i don't really know what to do with my life " phase , but the teen angst phase is something which is so annoyingly sophomoric and ignorant that any film that thinks they're dealing with it on any kind of serious level is just beating the wrong horse .  part of being a teen is experimenting , and testing the waters .  it's not whining about how awful parents are , and purposely feeling dispondent .  this is what the characters in this film do , and the film wants to show how they're these great people who are being punished by the world because they're teenagers , and how they try to defend themselves but can't totally overcome them .  it's not their fault they kill people ; it's the world's !  what they really need is a reality check .  the world is a bad place , and teenagers can be easily harmed because they are experimenting .  but part of it is taking everything that happens to you and learning from it .  the film thinks that teenagers are basically doomed , and there's nothing they can do about it .  hence the title .  not only does it have bad fallacy , but it can't even express this in an intelligent and coherent manner .  everything's overly surreal , and all we get are scenes of graphic violence and graphic sex .  how does xavier licking semen off his hand express teen angst ?  how does a talking decapitated head show that teens are dispondent because the world makes them this way ?  and why does the film constantly go back to the teen angst issue of the film ?  if araki had any kind of competence in writing or direction , he'd show them for what they really are .  and if he didn't want the satirical approach , he'd show the real problems with the world .  and if you still don't think that " the doom generation " is incompetent on every single possible level it could be , take the acting .  rose macgowan is horrible .  yes , she proved herself talented in " scream , " but she's so bad in " the doom generation " that if i had not seen her in " scream , " i would have christened her one of the worst actresses working in films today .  her entire performance is one-note ( bitchy ) , and the one scene where she cries over a dead animal is so forced that it's laughable .  equally bad is jonathan schaech , who wants to be the slacker serial killer : someone who doesn't have any remorse because emotions cause some kind of strain .  his performance is annoying as hell , and granted , he was better in " that thing you do ! "  and then there's james duval .  let's just say he makes keanu reeves look like brando .  he has the same kind of slacker stuttering , only much much much worse , and every line he says is so bad that i have now deemed him " least talented actor in the world . "  i have seen lots of bad actors , but james duval has got to be the worst .  or at least somewhere up there .  here's another example of a bad scene , if you're still not convinced : the film opens up in a club where they're playing nine inch nail's most banal song , " heresy " ( example of the lines : " god is dead/and no one cares/if there is a hell/i'll see you there " ) , and as the song plays , and red strobe lights show the patrons dancing , the film pans over to amy , just standing there , looking dispondent .  the film closes in on her , she looks right at the camera and says " fuck . "  no explanation of this should be necessary .  and finally , a note to gregg : grow up .  really .  move out of your parent's basement , read something other than salinger , and get a day job .  and don't quit it . 
pos@ synopsis : committed to an asylum , the marquis de sade ( rush ) continues to publish pornographic literature , aided by young maid madeleine ( winslet ) .  abbe coulmier ( phoenix ) , who runs the hospital , disapproves of the stories , but humours him in the hope of achieving a cure .  de sade's craft and life are threatened when the emperor dispatches dr royer-collard ( michael caine ) to stop the marquis' work , permanently .  review : " quills " is an exploration of the marquis de sade : his madness , his cruelty and his perversion , his obsession with sex in any form , no matter how obscene .  but " quills " also details the marquis' determination : to write in spite of the obstacles put in his path , and to propagate his words to the masses .  the extent to which de sade is willing to go to practise his trade is amongst the movie's most intriguing elements , as when de sade scribes a story in his own blood , or narrates a tale via of a chain of fellow inmates , cell to cell .  to provide a contrast with the marquis , wright involves him with two very different characters .  one is the abbe , a handsome , charming and kindly man whose desires are stymied by his oath to god .  the abbe lusts for madeleine , but it is the wizened marquis who is able to have her .  and then there is royer-collard , a hypocrite who in truth is as sadistic as any of the marquis' motley creations .  rush is splendid as de sade , utterly inhabiting the character .  kaufman's direction is fine , and he is able to bring a sense of bizarre humour to the grim proceedings .  the plot itself is rather mundane and plays out unsurprisingly , but this is virtually unimportant .  for two hours , " quills " acquaints us with the marquis de sade -- and , more frightening still , allows us brief insight into his scatological soul . 
neg@ let's get this one over with as quickly as possible .  if there was a possibility to receive a refund , this review would not be forthcoming .  but as it is , " godzilla " is without a doubt the loudest , longest , and ultimately most amateurishly written film ever released through a major studio .  producer dean devlin and director roland emmerich should be ashamed of themselves , and as penance be forced to return to film school to watch " last year at merienbad " until they can grasp the idea of content and plot .  no amount of hype , no amount of money can hide the fact that these filmmakers are the 90s equivalent to william beaudine ( billy the kid vs .  dracula ) .   " godzilla " opens with stock footage of the bikini atoll nuclear tests interspersed with footage of iguanas playfully swimming and nuzzling their eggs .  we are then introduced to the crew of a japanese fish canning ship ( a questionable enterprise considering that tuna processing is supposed to be supervised to eliminate the netting of dolphins ) .  well , the ship is attacked and sunk by an unseen creature .  later , a group of frenchmen led by philippe roache ( jean reno ) interview the sole survivor .  in a state of shock , the only thing the man can utter is the word " gojira " ( the japanese name of the famed beast ) .  we are then introduced to dr . nick tatopoulos ( matthew broderick , with a moniker obviously taken from the effects designer of the film ) .  he is currently studying the effects that the chernobyl disaster has had on the local earthworm population .  he is immediately drafted by the u . s . military and taken to panama where he is shown the huge footprints of a creature .  in a short amount of time , another fishing boat ( loaded with canned tuna from the u . s . and korea for some reason ) is found grounded in jamaica .  well , it seems that whatever is eating these ships is headed for new york .  when the beast finally appears , he tears up one building , stomps a couple of trucks and makes life hell for the incumbent mayor ebert ( thumbs up for new york ) .  the military , with dr . tatopoulos's help , have two tons of fresh fish dumped in the middle of new york to lure the beast out of its hiding place in the new york subway system .  it finally comes crashing through the city streets and has a cute face to face with dr . tatopoulos who snaps the beast's picture .  the monster eats the fish , the military starts shooting , and the chase is on , with the army causing 90% of the ensuing damage .  working from a hunch as to why godzilla has decided to come to the big apple , dr . totopoulos buys a few home pregnancy kits from a local drugstore that has chosen to remain open ( even though new york has been evacuated ) .  well the test proves that the monster is a hermaphrodite and is pregnant .  needless to say , no one believes the good doctor about his discovery , so he must join up with the renegade french secret service agents and find the monster's nesting site and destroy the eggs before the mayor starts letting the populous back into the city ( even though the monster isn't dead yet ) .  i sincerely hope that i've completely spoiled any interest anyone might have of seeing this film .  i gave away the relevant plot so that i could spare those of you courageous ( or foolish ) enough to drop down an hour's wage on this tripe .  everything about " godzilla " reeks almost as bad as the piles of rotting fish used to trap the beast .  the script ( and let's be clear here ) by devlin and emmerich is so full of plot holes and non characters as to be sure to be the recipient of next years " razzie " award .  the dialogue between maria pitillo ( as audrey timmonds , dr . tatopoulos' estranged girlfriend ) and mr . broderick is so adolescent , it makes teenagers giggle in disbelief ( as happened during the screening i witnessed ) .  the film could be enjoyably campy if it didn't take itself so damn seriously .  but to what end , as there is no commentary on humanities foibles against nature , nor is there any reference about godzilla being some sort of retaliation against mankind .  no . godzilla is just a big dummy that got knocked up by some french immigrants and decided to let the state of new york pay for it .  the film is bleak and ugly looking .  taking place at night during a rain storm , the movie has little or no depth .  everything is ugly and dark .  new york has never looked so inhospitable since " death wish " .  in an attempt to give the film some color , audrey timmonds carries a bright red umbrella which is unique in that everyone else in the film carries the standard gray issue .  the only moment of composition and color is during the brief scenes on jamaica , where dr . tatopoulos finds himself standing in a giant footprint .  the scene is nicely photographed but poorly set up .  you know from the outset that nick is standing in a footprint .  for a scientist , this is very poor observation .  let's look at some of the more interesting plot holes in the film ( this activity , is becoming almost as popular as the kevin bacon game ) :  1 . ) why does the french nuclear tests only affect one clutch of iguana eggs , and how do those eggs fuse into one beast ?  2 . ) why would a cold blooded creature choose a cold climate ( such as new york ) to nest ?  i don't think iguana's have a habit of migrating .  3 . ) how can godzilla crawl through the new york subway system , slice a submarine in half , yet be unable to extricate himself from some thin ( in comparison ) steel cable on the brooklyn bridge ?  4 . ) the brooklyn bridge is the only suspension bridge in existence that does not need it's suspension cables .  5 . ) did godzilla carry all two hundred eggs in her belly ?  if so , then radioactive mutations surely are wondrous creatures .   ( note : each egg is 10 feet tall and almost as wide .  godzilla would have to be over 1 , 000 feet tall to carry them all ) .  6 . ) godzilla can crush ships and eat helicopters , but new york cabs are made of stronger steel .  7 . ) godzilla can out maneuver helicopters , bullets , torpedoes and missiles , but can't catch you on foot .  8 . ) taxis can out maneuver godzilla .  9 . ) godzilla can burrow through the subway system but can't tear through the park avenue tunnel .  10 . ) why was nothing else mutated by the nuclear test as quickly as godzilla ?  maybe a giant hermit crab in the sequel .  11 . ) galapagos iguana's actually live in the french polynesian islands ?  12 . ) why was dr . tatopoulos brought in by the military if they were not going to listen to him anyway ?  13 . ) how did they evacuate new york island in less than a day , and how did they convince those new yorkers to go to new jersey ?  14 . ) new york television stations use vhs tape for both filming and broadcasting .  new yorkers hate beta cam .  i could go on and on , but that would only serve to make the film seem more enjoyable than it is .  don't be fooled , this film has less gray matter than any episode of " america's funniest home videos " .  the performances in the film are singularly bland .  not one performance belays any awe or fear in the face of this two hundred foot tall terror .  the characters , in the midst of the onslaught , have time to stop and discuss the lack of good coffee , failed relationships , career choices .  the only common occurrence that doesn't take place here is having one of the characters have a bowel movement , but then that would have made them believable .  godzilla for the most part is okay .  the design of the beast is funky , if not very memorable .  one thing that comes to mind-- the major redirection of godzilla in this film is to remove his most familiar trademark , namely his atomic breath .  now , i for one can't quite fathom how you can call this monster godzilla without that little trait .  a good comparison would be to make a superman film and eliminate his ability to fly .  there is so much wrong with this film that i can't really recall anything recently that has left me this cold hearted ( except for my divorce ) .  any film that can have a two ton lizard slipping on gum balls has got to be envisioned under the influence of prozac .  the addition of the baby raptors ( ah , i meant godzillas ) , are nothing but a direct rip off of 'jurassic park " , but with none of that film's suspense or tension .  suffice to say that , " godzilla " is without a doubt the most brain dead motion picture of the decade .  this is a film that needed the hype .  with the current level of writing and directing , nothing else about the film succeeds .  if you've seen the trailers , you've seen the best parts .  my only suggestion for mr . d and mr . e . is that they could always go back to selling shoes .   . this film could be the next " rocky horror " .  only it's not funny ! 
pos@ films adapted from comic books have had plenty of success , whether they're about superheroes ( batman , superman , spawn ) , or geared toward kids ( casper ) or the arthouse crowd ( ghost world ) , but there's never really been a comic book like from hell before .  for starters , it was created by alan moore ( and eddie campbell ) , who brought the medium to a whole new level in the mid '80s with a 12-part series called the watchmen .  to say moore and campbell thoroughly researched the subject of jack the ripper would be like saying michael jackson is starting to look a little odd .  the book ( or " graphic novel , " if you will ) is over 500 pages long and includes nearly 30 more that consist of nothing but footnotes .  in other words , don't dismiss this film because of its source .  if you can get past the whole comic book thing , you might find another stumbling block in from hell's directors , albert and allen hughes .  getting the hughes brothers to direct this seems almost as ludicrous as casting carrot top in , well , anything , but riddle me this : who better to direct a film that's set in the ghetto and features really violent street crime than the mad geniuses behind menace ii society ?  the ghetto in question is , of course , whitechapel in 1888 london's east end .  it's a filthy , sooty place where the whores ( called " unfortunates " ) are starting to get a little nervous about this mysterious psychopath who has been carving through their profession with surgical precision .  when the first stiff turns up , copper peter godley ( robbie coltrane , the world is not enough ) calls in inspector frederick abberline ( johnny depp , blow ) to crack the case .  abberline , a widower , has prophetic dreams he unsuccessfully tries to quell with copious amounts of absinthe and opium .  upon arriving in whitechapel , he befriends an unfortunate named mary kelly ( heather graham , say it isn't so ) and proceeds to investigate the horribly gruesome crimes that even the police surgeon can't stomach .  i don't think anyone needs to be briefed on jack the ripper , so i won't go into the particulars here , other than to say moore and campbell have a unique and interesting theory about both the identity of the killer and the reasons he chooses to slay .  in the comic , they don't bother cloaking the identity of the ripper , but screenwriters terry hayes ( vertical limit ) and rafael yglesias ( les mis ? rables ) do a good job of keeping him hidden from viewers until the very end .  it's funny to watch the locals blindly point the finger of blame at jews and indians because , after all , an englishman could never be capable of committing such ghastly acts .  and from hell's ending had me whistling the stonecutters song from the simpsons for days ( " who holds back the electric car/who made steve guttenberg a star ? " ) .  don't worry - it'll all make sense when you see it .  now onto from hell's appearance : it's certainly dark and bleak enough , and it's surprising to see how much more it looks like a tim burton film than planet of the apes did ( at times , it seems like sleepy hollow 2 ) .  the print i saw wasn't completely finished ( both color and music had not been finalized , so no comments about marilyn manson ) , but cinematographer peter deming ( don't say a word ) ably captures the dreariness of victorian-era london and helped make the flashy killing scenes remind me of the crazy flashbacks in twin peaks , even though the violence in the film pales in comparison to that in the black-and-white comic .  oscar winner martin childs' ( shakespeare in love ) production design turns the original prague surroundings into one creepy place .  even the acting in from hell is solid , with the dreamy depp turning in a typically strong performance and deftly handling a british accent .  ians holm ( joe gould's secret ) and richardson ( 102 dalmatians ) log in great supporting roles , but the big surprise here is graham .  i cringed the first time she opened her mouth , imagining her attempt at an irish accent , but it actually wasn't half bad .  the film , however , is all good .  2 : 00 - r for strong violence/gore , sexuality , language and drug content 
neg@ battlefield long , boring and just plain stupid  battlefield earth  a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman  in my mid-teen years , i had a horrendous re-occurring nightmare .  behind the wheel of a car , i was driving down a straight road in the middle of a desert .  no scenery except the horizon line and the converging parallel lines of the highway .  no matter what i did , the view didn't change : travelling but not getting anywhere .  each time i awoke in a sweat , terrified .  you don't have to be carl jung to understand that dream .  powerless to make changes , trapped in a boring situation with no hope of rescue , this is the stuff of nightmares whether we are asleep or awake .  this is exactly how you will feel 15 minutes after " battlefield earth " begins .  for all of its flash and style , l . ron hubbard's science fiction epic is the earliest and best entry for the dullest summer film of 2000 .  dull " and " stupid .  in the year 3000 , the psychlo aliens have ruled our planet for 1 , 000 years .  humans either work as slave labor in mining operations or live as barbarians .  there's no hope .  the future is bleak .  then the psychlo make a mistake and capture feisty jonnie goodboy tyler ( barry pepper ) who organizes a revolution against chief of security terl ( john travolta ) and the alien race .  it's an archetypal post-apocalyptic plot full of promise .  considering some of the talent involved and all the millions thrown at the screen , it's difficult to see how it could have failed so miserably .  but it does .  the story is so full of holes that it falls apart within minutes of the opening credits .  are we really supposed to believe that after a millennium of looking for gold , the psychlo never discovered fort knox ?  or that fighter planes are still in pristine condition after all that time -- and gassed up ?  or that the cavemen become such expert pilots in seven days that they can easily down the advanced alien ships ?  or that the psychlo spy cameras somehow don't notice that their slaves are missing for days ?  travolta prances across the screen hamming it up for all he's worth and is almost entertaining .  almost .  the rest of the actors are wooden mannequins trying not to laugh while delivering lines that no person -- " man-animal " or not -- would ever utter .  some of the film _looks_ good , but it also looks so familiar .  a race of large hulking ape-like creatures has taken over the world while our cities lie in ruin .  sound like something charlton heston might be in ?  the psychlo look like overweight klingons in gear from " dune " .  the final air battle between the air force fighters and the psychlo ships in their high-tech city is something george lucas might have been associated with .  it's too loud .  it's too oppressive .  it's too slow .  it's too long . . . far  too long .  and on it goes .  the list of the problems with " battlefield earth " is endless .  it's difficult to find anything in the film that does work .  oh yeah .  the color scheme is nice .  the real question is how this movie ever got made .  could it have something to do with the fact that l . ron hubbard was the founder of scientology ?  and that john travolta is a member of the church .  that might explain why travolta bought the rights to the novel years ago .  but it doesn't give us a clue as to why first-time screenwriter corey mandell's atrocious script was used .  or why the high-profile project was entrusted with roger christian who had never before directed a major film .  or why no one looked at this thing before it was released and realized there might be problems .  the one bright spot is that no longer will kevin costner's " the postman " ( which i begrudgingly admit as a guilty pleasure ) be " the " big budget science fiction failure .   " battlefield earth " has the honor sewed up .  often reviewers will recommend that you skip mediocre films and wait for the video .  that's not the case here .  you can act now and make the decision to not see it on the big screen or on the small one .  don't hesitate .  strike now while the iron is cold . 
pos@ note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers .  be forewarned .  on december 20 , 1996 , amidst all the year-end oscar bait releases from the major studios , miramax's genre label dimension films quietly released a sly little ensemble slasher flick titled scream .  although the teen horror market had been given up for all-but-dead in recent years , the film shocked industry observers by scoring consistently high box office returns , eventually topping $100 million domestic and becoming one of the most successful films of its type in history , while delighting audiences by finally presenting a set of knowing slasher flick protagonists who were aware of the all the standard cliches associated with the genre .  the sleeper success of scream sent shockwaves through the industry -- suddenly , everybody was looking for hip , inexpensive fright films that might be able to reap similar fortunes .  the strategy of casting young tv stars to draw the youth demographic was given a boost .  scream director wes craven , previously best known as the creator of new line's a nightmare on elm street film series , was thrust back into the limelight .  and scream's rookie scribe , kevin williamson , burst onto the film scene in stunning fashion .  it's hard to understate this last point .  mr . williamson has , based upon his produced screenplays as of this writing ( scream , i know what you did last summer from october 1997 , and now scream 2 ) , enjoyed a meteoric rise to fame , quickly become the most well-known screenwriter amongst the entertainment weekly-reading , box office figure-watching youth culture since -- well , since that quentin tarantino guy ( whom , it is said , has also achieved some renown as a director ) .  indeed , in a singularly freakish oddity , it is the screenwriter , mr . williamson , and not the director that has been receiving the lion's share of acclaim for the success of scream , and the print advertisements for scream 2's theatrical release are similarly indicative of his increasing prominence : while the traditional " a film by wes craven " drapes the film's title in the ads , right below it ( in equal sized font , yet ) reads " written by kevin williamson " , an affirmation of the screenwriter's contribution to the project which may be unprecedented .   ( i can envision the board of wga , licking their chops at this coup and counting the days until their goal of " a film by " is attained . )  and , much like mr . tarantino's screenwriting , mr . williamson's work is vaguely unconventional , incorporating both contemporary pop culture references and allusions to other films into the dialogue of his characters .  in scream , they satirically discussed other horror films ; here in the sequel , the characters discuss the relative merits of film sequels .  scream was written in 1995 during the infamous bob dole rampage against hollywood , and mr . williamson's rejection of this tirade clearly influenced the writing in both that film and this sequel .  while the sequel was planned from the outset -- a treatment of scream 2 was included when mr . williamson sold the screenplay for scream -- the basic premise for the film and the reunion of the surviving characters nevertheless seems extremely artificially contrived , and it's only at about the film's midway point when it becomes engaging .  like its predecessor , scream 2 opens with a splashy , eye-grabbing prologue which only vaguely ties into the film's principal narrative ; this time around , we're following the exploits of a young couple ( jada pinkett and omar epps ) attending a riotously gleeful sneak preview screening of stab ( a running film-within-a-film gag where the " true life " events behind the first film has been turned into a movie ) .  however , although it tries hard and has some good ideas -- the nightmarishly enthusiastic audience in the film vaguely reminded me of the one i was sharing the theatre with , and i was certainly thinking about gutting the overly-noisy person a few seats away myself after about fifteen minutes -- the prologue is a pale imitation of the bravura opening sequence in the original with drew barrymore ( where her performance not only convinced me that she * could * act , but was so good that it would rank among the best performances in a horror film that i've ever seen ) .  there are too many knowing , hip pop-culture references crammed into the scream 2 sequence , and the setup isn't nearly as cleverly frightening as scream's ; while the first film's preface dizzyingly built up to a final shot that was exhilaratingly terrifying , the payoff here is almost campily theatrical .  flash to the campus of a smalltown ohio college , where returning characters sidney ( neve campbell ) and randy ( jamie kennedy ) have relocated for their studies and to escape the notoriety from the events in the first film .  the murders which open this film result in reuniting the survivors -- single-minded tabloid tv reporter gale weathers ( courteney cox ) roars into town to cover the breaking story , while ever-awkward former deputy dewey riley ( david arquette ) flies in to protectively guard over sidney .  they're joined by cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , who was falsely accused of homicide in a cameo appearance during the first film ; his role here is significantly expanded .  the film incidentally provides surprisingly little backstory , although i suppose a good case can be made that it really isn't necessary -- not because so many people have seen the first installment , but because this is , after all , a sequel to a slasher film : what do you * think * happened to these characters in the prior movie ?  there's a lot of new faces on the scene too : sidney's new boyfriend , derek ( jerry o'connell ) and her new roommate hallie ( elise neal ) , randy's fellow film student mickey ( timothy olyphant ) , gale's newly-assigned nervous cameraman joel ( duane martin ) , omnipresent local journalist debbie salt ( laurie metcalf ) , co-ed cici cooper ( ms . buffy herself , sarah michelle gellar ) , and a pair of simpering sorority sisters ( rebecca gayheart and sirens' portia di rossi ) .  any of these characters could be the killer -- or for that matter , could be the next victim .  as is seemingly becoming a regular staple of a kevin williamson screenplay , the narrative is once again framed around the increasingly-flimsy premise of a whodunit .  one problem that scream didn't have was keeping you interested in the identity of the killer .  here ( and to some extent in i know what you did last summer ) , mr . williamson's screenplay seems slightly hampered by trying to turn the identity of the killer into a mystery .  the film occasionally becomes so bogged down with misdirection that you can sense it straining at the seams to try and drop red herrings left and right at the expense of its thriller elements .   ( it doesn't help matters any that the killer's alter-ego is fairly obvious from the get-go . )  indeed , the finale plays as full-out camp when the villain is finally unmasked , frothing at the mouth with glazed eyes .  this is one of those cases where the villain goes on such an endless diatribe about their machinations , scheming , and motivation , that you actually get bored listening and just want them all to get on with it .  while the basic setup and premise for the film is fairly contrived , the aspect where it's head-and-shoulders above its predecessor is in its suspense sequences .  they're staged much more imaginatively here ( save for the first post-prologue murder , which is handled in such a mediocre , conventional fashion that it seems to be culled directly from the predictable 1980s slasher flicks that the first film satirized ) , and are much more fun to watch .  it's hard to hold back a smile during a giddy scene where sidney and her companion have to climb over the incapacitated killer in order to escape from a car wreck , and a cat-and-mouse chase involving gale and dewey in a campus sound lab is very nicely staged , although its ultimate resolution is hilariously overblown .  in terms of its characters , the strong part of the film is the interesting relationship between gale and dewey ( who ambles onto the screen accompanied by his very own theme music ) .  their verbal sparring at the outset provides much humour -- an exchange where dewey defensively rebukes charges of a perceived aura of incompetency is well-written -- and there's a curiously endearing aspect about their relationship amidst all the mayhem and bloodshed .  on the other hand , sidney is pretty dull here .  she doesn't have any compelling presence , and there's nothing particularly interesting about her this time around to make us care about her other than that she's the returning heroine .  given this , and the fact that there's no strong second banana character for sidney ( elise neal's role isn't nearly substantive enough to adequately fill rose mcgowan's shoes ) , it's no wonder why the roles for gale and dewey have been significantly augmented for this installment of the film .  what surprises me the most about scream 2 is its zealousness in decimating its cast .  the film's mounting body count bears out the fact that * no * character is safe ( well , * almost * ) ; while in principal i applaud this bold policy , at some point you've got to be wondering about just how many characters will make it to the next sequel .   ( i was particularly surprised with the untimely demise of one in particular , whose casting for the next installment of the series would've seemed obvious . )  but hey , as rose mcgowan's character said in the first film : " no , please don't kill me , mr . ghostface -- i want to be in the sequel ! "  look what that got her . 
neg@ at times , you'd think edtv would be an entertaining film .  i mean , who can resist the story of your average joe becomming a celebrity by having his life filmed every minute of every day ?  but this average joe , ed perkuny , ( matthew mcconaughay ) , is a sappy , lifeless creation that wanders around , trying to solve everyone's problems and settle his own .  mcconaughay is awful , especially because he is trying to pull off his usual hollywood charm with a 3 week beard and torn jeans .  frankly , he had more charm in the devestating flop the newton boys .  he overacts in every way : his overexaggerant body language , obsession with kissing women every second he gets the chance , and that cliched scene where he loses someone in his life , and drops to his knee and cries .  the rest of the cast is very good ; especially martin landau ( as ed's step-father ) , who plays a cute role as the close-to-death old guy that makes all the witty comments .  jenna elfman is good , ( but a little overemotional ) ; her main problem is that she keeps getting sucked into bad films , i . e .  can't hardly wait , and krippendorf's tribe .  woody harrelson , as ed's brother ray , does his usual egg-headed role , with his comic wit as well ( he wrote a book entitled , " my brother pissed on me . " )  elizabeth hurley is perfectly cast as the easy slut , and dennis hopper , in a quick cameo as ed's biological father , is a nice choice ( ironically coming after the role he turned down as christof in the truman show ) .  ellen degeneres stood out as the executive who , after awhile , decides the show must not go on much to the opposite of the head exec , rob reiner's opinion .  i hate to compare this film to the truman show , but the fact is , i was ashamed to see this movie .  it felt that i had dropped from college to kindergarten after seeing truman and ed .  edtv had no real wit or genius ; it was typical hollywood .  extracting the tv part of the movie , you have the simple plotline : man steals brother's girlfriend , girlfriend leaves town , man gets new slut girlfriend to feel like he can move on , slut breaks up with him , real girlfriend comes back , and voila , you have a romance .  i got so restless during this movie , i almost walked out .  the only reason it doesn't drop below a " c " grade is because of the fine supporting performances .  ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and  i like it .  i like breathing through it . "  -jack nicholson , chinatown 
pos@ the uncompromising nudity bared throughout petrice chereau's intimacy has already garnered much notoriety , but it's in the naked faces of fearless actors mark rylance ( angels & insects ) and kerry fox ( welcome to sarajevo ) that the tender ache of emotional resonance is discovered .  with sharp , intelligent eyes that reflect experience and maturity , rylance and fox are refreshingly detached from the false glamour of hollywood idols .  their sex scenes together are bracing in their raw honesty , in the acceptance of flesh and messiness .  less apparent , but no less remarkable , are the astute observations of behavior revealed through those carnal beats of haste and hesitance , often without a single line of dialogue .  not aiming for the spiritual poetry of in the realm of the senses or the philosophical transgressions of crash , chereau keeps his sexual odyssey firmly grounded in terms of straightforward character development .  that may be the very reason why intimacy seems unerringly impressive but never particularly significant on more than a tactile , sensory level .  the themes of human isolation are barren and obvious , a science project devoid of any especially groundbreaking hypothesis .  intimacy does manage to stand out from lesser portraits of " human interconnectedness " and pinter-esque rummages through psychological dirty drawers ( okay , kill me ) .  shallow though it might sound , it's amazing how much is filled in through an inspired cast , perceptive camerawork , and imaginative ways of treating the love scene .  those ingredients are too assured and confident to merely dismiss as icing on the cake , especially since they are the substance of the cake itself .  adapted from a pair of short stories by british novelist hanif kureishi , intimacy weaves desperate lovemaking between two strangers in london .  every wednesday , jay ( rylance ) and claire ( fox ) meet in his cluttered , dank apartment for an hour or two of sexual release from their uninspired lives .  he's been head bartender at a posh restaurant for over six years .  she's a mystery to him but her glum workaday appearance reveals a similar dissatisfaction .  they're both married , but his relationship has curdled into an embittered separation .  as the weeks draw on , jay obsessively takes it upon himself to uncover claire's personal routines .  in his attempt to gain a fuller semblance of who she is , he opens wounds that hadn't existed before by single-handedly corrupting the fantasy .  if it weren't for a few unnecessary subplots involving jay's brother and his bevy of disgruntled co-workers , this minimalist premise might be described as a modern fable on the perils of wish fulfillment .  chareau's restless camera ( once again wielded by superb and ever-attentive cinematographer eric gautier ) is less appropriate here than in his family transit-oriented those who love me can take the train .  the scenes that linger are the still ones where rylance and fox separately , pensively attempt to carry on with their makeshift household routines .  these are often captured in lingering , unblinking wide shots that view them stranded amidst their drab workplaces and homes .  separation proves haunting in a melancholy series of intercut shots as rylance and fox undress on opposite sides of the room , crawling across the floor to meet in the center .  despite being as restless as a fly during the hyperactive restaurant scenes ( all the better to blend in with a hustling crowd of gabby trendsetters ) , you'd be hard pressed to find a single uninteresting image .  intimacy takes an interest in its sordid world of the lower-middle class , with lonely pubs and busy shopping streets -- it also understands the people who inhabit those spaces , viewing them with sympathy scraped raw .  an evaluation would be incomplete without highlighting the great timothy spall ( the robust scene-stealer of many a mike leigh collaboration ) .  as claire's cuckolded husband , this jocular heavyweight plays out his handful of bitter pill scenes with the unforced menace and self-effacing embarrassment of his imposing bulk .  bangs in his eyes , his mouth forming into quizzical pouts and dry smirks , he may seem the fool in his barroom encounters opposite a sarcastic , gleaming mark rylance ( whose jay has arrived on the scene looking to stir up some trouble ) , but spall is no one to trifle with .  his overreaching best pal demeanor suggests a mind abuzz with secret passageways of guile , his pointed questions only na ? ve if you choose not to read into their crafty insinuations .  in his unassuming way , spall's carefully etched interpretation of hostility buried under a mountain of surface propriety may become one of the most criminally underappreciated performances of the year , but maybe also one of the best .  he's that good . 
neg@ i wish i could have been in the pitch meeting for this ridiculous notion of a sports film .  i bet it was some hotshot warner brothers agent with an dark armani suit and manicured fingernails saying , " it would be a very light comedic version of any given sunday , and we could throw in the hoosiers angle with the casting of gene hackman as the tough but determined coach .  throw in that hunk of a guy keanu reeves and a cast of wacky characters and poof !  we'll have a hit on our hands ! "  the replacements is a hokey mistake of a football film , a mishmash collage of one-dimensional characters , rampant stereotypes of cultures and races , cliched emotional statements of purpose , and keanu reeves wishing for the matrix sequel to start principal photography .  the story is loosely based around the pro football players' strike in 1987 and a rag-tag team of replacement football players taking up the reins of professional play for a variety of teams with names like the washington sentinels .  keanu reeves stars as shane falco , a has-been football college player looking for redemption .  gene hackman dons a fedora like tom landry and speaks with gusto like a certain coach in hoosiers .  rounding out the cast includes swingers' jon favreau , 7-up pitchman orlando jones , gruff owner jack warden , and cast of wacky and unknown actors who do amazing jobs of portraying perfectly stereotyped characters : the drunken welshman , the overweight sumo wrestler , the black convict , the violent cop , and the dumb , dumb cheerleaders .  this bunch of nobodies try to make something of themselves by taking the team to the season playoffs with unbelievable football plays , gene hackman yelling and asking himself where the hell dennis hopper is , keanu reeves looking for his body double making him look good on the football field , and cheerleaders hired from the local strip club making the girls from coyote ugly look like waitresses from denny's .  the usual things happen like clockwork .  the hero rises from the ashes of failure , the team comes together in unity , the hero falls in love with a conventional love interest , the football games are won with enough schlock value to make the most ignorant of audiences cheer and clap , and the cheerleaders make you want to go home and watch late night movies on cinemax .  it's also a shame when decent directors with good movies under their belts go to seed and become television and sequel hacks .  howard deutch , who was behind the camera for two of the best films of '80s - pretty in pink and some kind of wonderful , has since been doing grumpier old men and caroline in the city episodes .  obviously the problem is that without a good script , any director will fail in the end .  sports films are strong vehicles for cinematic glory , gritty tales involving the honor of men and the valiant efforts taken for the ultimate goal of victory in the face of insurmountable odds , the rise and fall of gallant heroes , and stories of dramatic gusto painted with blood and sweat on the battlefield of life .  the replacements offers none of this . 
pos@ i have to admit that i disliked this film initially .  it certianly isn't for every taste , and it's sheer torture to sit through if you're in a restless mood .  that said , if you are in the right mood , it's absolutely incredible .  this was my second favorite movie of 1998 , and would have been a shoo-in for first in almost any other year .  perhaps the big turn-off for many was this film's unconventionality .  i'd be hard-pressed to compare it to any other film that i've seen - it is very , very artsy , incredibly slow - and amazingly , it works beautifully .  on my second viewing , i realized that the film follows the three act structure ( i didn't think it had any sort of structure at all when i first saw it ) .  the first act serves to set up the characters - sort of .  it exists even moreso to set a mood of tension and restlesness , and perhaps even feelings of boredom .  and then it is shattered by the intense violence of the second ( which encompasses most of the movie ) .  the majority of the film is one extended battle scene , intercut with brief flashbacks and voice-overs .  the artsier elements do not detract from the action , but add to it - they succeed in briefly letting the viewer peek into the minds of the soldiers , only to be suddenly yanked back into reality when the battle resumes .  the battle scenes are amazing ( second only to " saving private ryan " in my opinion ) .  they're brutal , horrifying , and at times beautiful due to the amazing cinematography .  the second act is as immersive , brilliant , and haunting as any film that i have ever seen .  the only problems come during the first and third acts .  malick takes a little too long to get the film started .  although the initial scenes - which consist of two soldiers' experiencing a near-eden-like paradise while going awol , and the preperations for battle - are effective and necessary , hints of pretentiousness sink in .  the film is just a tad too artsy near the beginning , and a lot of people that disliked the movie probably gave up on it because of this .  the final act is effective at winding the film down , but the problems from the first persist - it's a bit too long , and comes over as pretentious at times .  that said , there are two sequences ( one where a soldier gets a devastating note from his wife , and another where one of the main characters is killed ) that are nothing short of incredible .  the performances are phenominal all around .  the two standouts are nick nolte and newcomer jim caviezel , both of whom should have been nominated for oscars .  nolte is riveting and intense as the colonel in charge of the operation .  his character is hard , mean , and somewhat reckless with the lives of his men , and yet nolte somehow manages to evoke sympathy for him .  caviezel is forever questioning the nature of war , his place in it , and if there's any deeper meaning to the hell that he's going through .  he is absolutely perfect - genuine , sympathetic , sincere , and yet strong when he needs to be .  although restricted to a relatively small role , sean penn is also very good as the company's pessimistic seargent .  as to how it stacks up to " saving private ryan " - it was my second favorite movie of 1998 , " ryan " was my first .  it's really hard to compare the two - they are so , so different - so i won't , beyond saying that spielberg's film had more of an impact on me .  however , the two are comparable from the standpoint of quality ( i can easily see why someone would " the thin red line " above " ryan ) .  i highly recommend both of them , and consider them to be the two best war movies ever made .  all in all , " the thin red line " is filmmaking of an incredibly high order .  it's slight faults are easily offset by the sheer brilliance of what is done right .  it's a real shame that it tanked at the box office - films this unconventional , powerful , and thought-provoking don't come along very often . 
neg@ long ago , films were constructed of strong dialogue , original characters , memorable plot points , and solid acting .  one of the best examples that hollywood now completely ignore these qualities is found in the new film where the heart is .  this opus about the power of love and the redemption of family follows the tragic , and i mean tragic , life of novalee nation ( natalie portman ) .  hitting the road with her hick , guitar-playing boyfriend in a rusted-out gm , novalee dreams of the blue skies of bakersfield and sipping chocolate milk beneath a plastic umbrella with her unborn baby , due in a month .  stopping off at a nearby wal-mart for a quick rest , novalee's boyfriend decides to take off and leaves her there .  novalee then decides to secretly hole up in the wal-mart ( because she's not the brightest bulb in the stagelights ) .  a wacky librarian ( keith david ) comes to her rescue when she goes into labor one night while she is camped in the outdoors section of the store .  then the she moves in with a family , befriends everyone in town -- including ashley judd's character ( who has five kids and still can work part-time as a nurse ) -- fights off religious freaks , survives a tornado , breaks the heart of the wacky librarian that saved her , receives an inheritance , builds a martha stewart-esque house , becomes an award-winning photographer , and manages to always look like she stepped out of a cosmo shoot , all while not once doing anything with her kid .  this film is terrible .  the directing is awful : it seems director matt williams had an index card with six angles written on it and used every one of them , over and over and over again .  we get pathetic and ugly acting by natalie portman , who can do good work .  a disjointed pacing of key scenes and a time structure so confusing that it would throw steve prefontaine off .  a subplot that actually validates the actions of the boyfriend who abandoned novalee in the wal-mart parking lot .  an embarrassing display of emotions by the characters , making the audience ill .  taking two great comedic screenwriters , babaloo mandel and lowell ganz , and forcing them to write drama on par with oprah's book club .  altogether , it has the feeling of being trapped at home , watching a very bad television mini-series and wishing it to end , only the remote is broken .  however , the main problem with the film is that it never answers the most poignant question brought up : where is the heart ?  no one ever seems to find it in this piece of junk . 
pos@ the grandfather of italian horror the late mario bava has credits in nearly 100 films and tv movies produced in italy between 1939 and his death in the early 80's .  more practiced as a cinematographer than a director , bava nonetheless sat in the director's chair for beyond the door ii , the project which turned out to be his last full-length feature film .  alongside the appalling zombie schlock of hacks like lucio fulci , beyond the door ii is simply a revelation .  in his day bava was considered by most to be no great filmmaker , yet here he fashioned one of the finest italian horror movies of the 1970's .   ( note that the film has no connection with the 1975 exorcist-rip off behind the door , but for some unexplained reason was given this related title for release in the usa and australia . )  this story focuses on dora , a women set upon by a malevolent spirit that channels itself through her young son marco .  the film opens with dora , her son and second husband bruno returning to a house by the sea that was the scene of her first husband's suicide and her subsequent trauma 7 years earlier .  they hope to put the past behind them , but as small accidents start to befall dora - usually while bruno is away on business - she starts to suspect that marco ( played with uncanny ability by 8 year old david colin jr . ) is somehow involved in the strange goings on .  to reveal any more of the story would be unfair .  suffice to say that this artfully paced study of a woman suffering a nervous breakdown offers an intriguing plot , loads of atmosphere and solid acting , though the dialogue is somewhat weakened by the dubbing into english .  bava coaches a surprisingly good performance from the usually wooden daria nicolodi , wife of famed italian horror director dario argento .  her character is invested with sufficient depth to allow the audience real empathy with dora's troubled soul .  the music by italian ensemble libra is also effective , mixing odd-sounding 70's rock with classic gothic piano sequences .  and there is at least one moment - brilliantly engineered by bava - that is guaranteed to lift you ten feet out of your chair .  yet for italian horror , the bloodletting here is surprisingly minimal .  lamberto bava and francesco barbieri's script is more concerned with deeper , psychological terrors , with themes of guilt and suffering , with the notion that what we sow will shall - somewhere , somehow - eventually reap .  scholars of the genre take note : beyond the door ii is stylish , chilling , and essential . 
neg@ one of the 90s' most unwelcome thriller trends returns from the grave : it's the " ___ from hell " movie !  starting in the early nineties , we were subjected to nearly every conceivable combination of relationships-from-hell !  there were boyfriends from hell , friendly neighborhood cops from hell , nannies from hell , and even secretaries from hell .  but hush has found an old standby that somehow was forgotten in the rush : the mother-in-law from hell ! ! ! ! !  the mother-in-law in question is martha , played by jessica lange .  she has been single-handedly running the family horse farm , kilronan .  her son , jackson ( johnathon schaech ) and his girlfriend , helen ( gwyneth paltrow ) , live in new york , and have no intention to move back down south to the rural kilronan .  but those intentions are about to change .  you see , martha lives by manipulation .  she has used it in years past to breed many championship horses .  now , she believes she can use it to breed herself a grandson .  though at first , helen finds martha charming , soon she is caught in the domineering martha's web of deception .  it's hard to understand why nobody ever wises up to martha' schemes .  as written , most of the characters in the film must be very slow witted .  but then , the film even treats the audience like idiots .  it tries to get away with things ( like leaving a critical piece of evidence in a rather unlikely place ) without even batting an eye .  then again an audience which accepts characters as shallow as these isn't one that's likely to question details .  jessica lange's martha is the only semi-developed character in the film , and she applies her talents to redeem it as much as she can .  a character that could have been simply awful is merely groan-worthy .  gwyneth paltrow doesn't have much to build upon , as helen's only character trait seems to be " daughter-in-law " .  still , she fares better than johnathon schaech , whose character is so nonexistent , he's inexplicably missing for much of the film .  still , there have been much worse " ____ from hell " films .  even with its paper-thin characters and ludicrous setups , hush manages to create a few thrills in a color-by-numbers fashion .  you know what's coming , but occasionally the film will deliver a shock or two .  the old formulas are around for a reason , but that doesn't mean they taste fresh . 
pos@ this is a film about secrets , some that are innocent like those of a cute little farm girl , frances boyd ( ashley ) .  others that are between a married couple that is impacting their relationship , like the problems of infertility affecting this upwardly mobile couple , geoffrey gaines ( stephen ramsey ) , the medical researcher working for a big corporation called fex and striving to get a patent for his experiment and become recognized in his field , and his artist wife , lillian ( miriam healy-louie ) , who reluctantly stands behind her husband suppressing her natural artistic tendencies in order to make the marriage work .  and , still other secrets that have a greater implication for the world and are deadly in a political sense , of science carried out by the big corporations like it was a business run for the bottom line .  receiving a summer grant to study " chemo-electric therapy , " geoffrey and his wife are hoping that a summer spent away from the intensity of the big city will bring back the romance that is dwindling from their marriage and that the casualness of the country atmosphere will give them more time together , as their three-year marriage has become shaky because he is more interested in his work than he is in her .  he has slyly managed to keep his work as secretive as possible by locking himself in the lab , which is off limits to her , as he secretly goes about conducting experiments on rats and mice , convincing her that what he is doing is to benefit humanity with possible new treatments and cures to illnesses .  his main argument is , that this is what the public wants , they don't want to hear about how some animals had to die because of these experiments , they just want the benefits of science .  that he is depicted as a monster creating another monster , much like frankenstein was created , is the argument skewed by the director against his bad science ( science as a business ) as opposed to the good science ( science that cares about the small farmer ) , which is represented by the handsome and almost perfect gentleman , alex vine ( david ) , a young ecologist who chooses to work in the field , trying to get the farmers to go back to organic farming .  he is hired by the university to monitor the dangers of pesticides and all the chemicals the farmer is almost forced to use to survive financially , as it is doing irreparable harm to him and the consumer because of all the health risks attached to this new way of farming , methods that have just come about in the last thirty- years and are being pushed by the big companies to enhance their profit margins .  the third view in all this is the artist's , represented by lillian , who points out that the artist's work is shown in public and scrutinized constantly , " why shouldn't the same be true of the scientist ? "  she argues that the artist is the watchdog for the public , questioning what is good or evil in society , something that bad science has completely ignored .  geoffrey , impatient to get ahead with his research , feels bogged down by the bureaucrats in his firm who fail to provide him with the three chimps he needs to experiment on , as he contacts one of the company's higher ups to argue his case , but decides he can't wait any longer for their help , so he sets an animal trap in the countryside and catches chester , the gorgeous pet dog of frances , a dog that means so much to her and her family because he saved her life .  while out in the field with the bloodied trapped dog already in the back seat of his car , he is spotted by alex and one of his co-workers , and nervously invites them to dinner with his wife , afraid that alex will spot what he is doing , as he rushes away from the area .  in the dinner scene that was , unfortunately , flatly done , but was nevertheless the heart of the film , as all the main characters get a chance to speak out from the point of view they represent as they eat meat , a means of getting protein that the radical scientists have eschewed since they became so politically correct about everything .  the scientists engage in a rational argument , highlighting their different points of view , while lillian reacts in an emotional way , siding mostly with david's view but coming at it from a much different angle .  it was as if the actors were puppets on strings that the director controlled and they just spewed out their generalized philosophies .  that the director's point of view is absolutely right , is beside the point .  the point is that the characters lost their humanity and became one-dimensional characters .  geoffrey was likened to a hideous monster , alex vine was likened to his last name , the one who holds fast to the ground ensuring that the plant has stability , while lillian was likened to the muse of poetry and art , the inspiration for goodness and beauty .  alex has been spending a lot of time together with lillian , as these two seem to share the same views and are physically attracted to each other , but when the time is ripe for an affair to take place between them , lillian changes her mind and decides not to go up to alex's apartment .  geoffrey is already suspicious of alex and considers him an enemy , and the marriage seems to be coming apart and all his cunning tricks to possess her are no longer working , as it is now impossible to see any good in him and there becomes no reason why she would remain with him .  the relationship has disintegrated way beyond the point of her just feeling lonely .  the dog is discovered by alex and her in a deplorable state after geoffrey is seen by them electrically shocking it , and mercifully the dog dies .  the only thing left for her to do is walk out of the marriage , but she also fails to respond to david's loving gesture for her to stay with him , instead opting to head back to the city .  the farmer whose dog was tortured to death comes into the scientist's lab and knocks him cold while he was in the middle of a phone conversation with one of the higher-ups who told him all the animals he needs are on the way .  what is progress ?  what can one expect out of life ?  is the small farmer about to become extinct ?  the answers to these questions can best be answered by either good science or art , which are both closely related to the american natives vision of a world entrusted to mankind so that he can respect it and take care of it and enrich it with his creations to benefit mankind in a peaceful way .  that this work fails to be subtle and polarizes opinions , leaving no room for deeper arguments , is the shame of this decent and smart film , that tried so hard to say what it felt it had to say but said it so loudly without trusting its audience to catch on to its message by not making everything seem so black and white .  no telling said a lot about the harmful trends it sees science going in ; it probably said too much and would have been better off if its vision was more poetical and less didactic .  there is something about listening to a lecture that turns off the rebel in me , as i don't like being hit in the head with the truth but prefer to have it presented in the form that leads to inspiration or told metaphorically .  that is not to say that i found the film without considerable merit , that inspite of its shortcomings , it was worth seeing because of its visual statements , though they were also not too subtle , they were at least effective in setting up the intense mood that the film needed to show that there is a mental war going on currently , of those who believe one way is right and others who differ with them , and that anyone who is neutral must be considered an enemy because of their indifference .  the stakes in this ecological struggle are that high .  perhaps the most powerful visual statement in the film , was the dead cow from pesticides shown in the opening scene .  it was the image that lillian spent her time painting all summer and had the same affect for her as did the animal faces in picasso's guernica had for him .  both artists envisioned the horrors that man could do against the world , and represented this unspoken pain on the faces of the animals so that anyone who cares to really see what is going on , will not mistake which side of the fence he or she should be on .  the pain that lillian feels , as she forgets about her desires to raise a family , and she stares at her painting of the cow and the song , " make the world go away " blares out from the background , after she has learned that frances' beautiful and loving dog has been brutalized by her monster of a husband , all in the name of science , had a raw power to it that personalizes the dangers of bad science .  perhaps , the most pertinent question the film asks , requires an answer that must be resolved by the farmers and the consumers who are most caught in the changing world and its new way of doing business , as the question becomes , can science be happily married with art ? 
neg@ in the continuation of warner brother's franchise , joel schumacher has successfully killed this cash cow .  what makes this film such a grand disappointment is the tremendous line up of talented people involved with the film .  avika goldsman's screenplay is such a cluttered mess that there is no suspense built from one scene to another .  this coming on the heals of such a marvelously written project as " the client " is such a shock that it gives rise to thoughts that the latter film was a fluke .  situations are developed and executed with no thought of reason other that to get the characters from one point to another .  this is most glaringly brought to point by the appearance of alicia silverstone's batgirl , who just happens to be alfred's niece .  the story of dr . victor freeze is told almost completely in dialogue as an afterthought .  while working on a cure for a tragic decease contracted by his wife , dr . freeze is injured during a cryogenic procedure , and becomes a man who can only survive in a sub zero environment .  now of course he has become a terrorist intent on turning the world into a frozen planet where only he can live .  now the logic of that little sub-plot escapes me .  if mr . freeze wanted to find a cure for his wife and bring her back from the brink of death , why would he want to have her live in a world with no warmth .  this is indeed a cold hearted man .  the development of poison ivy is no less contradictory .  she wants to breed a form of plant life that can defend itself like an animal .  she joins with mr . freeze in his plan to start a new ice age , destroying all animal life , therefore giving her plant creations no reason to have the defense mechanism she had been trying to breed into them .  the characters have no logic .  batman of course is no longer the dark knight of the earlier films .  now that he has an adoptive son in burt ward / robin , bruce wayne is trying to be a father figure , constantly spouting out homilies about family and relationships , while at the same time not really having any .  george clooney tries in vain to keep from rolling his eyes while reciting the dialogue given him .  to say that his performance is workman-like is to be generous .  his best performances are still on " e . r . " .  bruce wayne has the most unromantic evening with his girlfriend ( played by elle macpherson ) , that it brings into question bruce's latent homosexuality .  there is no spark and no passion ( as there was for nicole kidman's psychologist in " batman forever " ) between bruce and anyone other than alfred .  and even that relationship is very reserved .  robin comes off less charismatic that in the last film in the series .  now he's just a spoiled kid .  in " batman forever " , burt ward wanted to be batman's partner and friend .  now , robin is suffering from ego deficiency .  robin's attraction for poison ivy is not believable , except for a boy around the age of 15 .  his later flirtation with batgirl smacks of incest , even though they are not related in a traditional sense .  chris o'donnell , once considered a rising star , successfully burns up on reentry with this performance .  his robin needs nothing more than a good spanking .  the less said about alicia silverstone's performance the better .  this talented young actress reads her lines with all the aplomb of a dubbing actor for a godzilla film .  she was cast strictly for her commercial value and she knew it .  this brings us to the villains .  arnold scharzenegger walks through his part with all the concern of someone waiting for payday .  the most rediculous scene is during mr . freeze's imprisonment .  the guards are at least a foot taller that arnold and yet fall at his hand in one of the most unbelievable fights scenes caught on film .  it's almost as ludicrous as seeing michael jackson as a gang member .  umu thurman struts and coos her way through her part , showing a growing discomfort with her sex symbol status .  her poison ivy has all the come hither sex appeal of may west in " sextette " ( 1978 ) .  the only performances worthy of notice are pat hingle and michael gough .  these two seasoned veterans carry their scenes with a dignity sorely lacking from the rest of the film .  without going through the intricacies of the plot , there is one question that always comes to mind with this series ( except for the first " batman " ) , and that is how do these super villains manage to hire so many thugs only to abandon them at the final reel .  mr . freeze is introduced with a team of hockey playing hoodlums that seem to have stepped out of an old kiss music video .  every villain ( even the minor ones ) have to have a look , no one can be an individual with day glow paint on their face or some sort of elaborate costume .  with this film , warner brothers has succeeded in retrograding the series back to it's tv incarnation .  the only thing missing from the action scenes are the superimposed titles detailing the pows ! ,  gwaaaa's , and clang's associated with the old series .  you almost wonder if william dozier , producer of the tv series is collecting royalties from this film .  the special effects ( by john dykstra ) and production design ( by barbara ling ) are the primary stars of this film .  and it is a case of extravagance in the pursuit of nothing .  every set , from ivy's lair , the batcave , to freeze's hideout is set with enough neon and fiberglass to keep the epa in paperwork for years to come .  there is no one realistic set or set piece in the film .  everything is set for maximum exposure .  the special effects have that strange cartoon look that most rushed cgi effects have .  there are homage thrown in by dykstra and his team to gene warren and his work on " the time machine " ( the growing plant scene ) but these scenes are so wroth with glaring color and art that they are almost obscured .  joel schumacher has directed the film with no flair .  camera angles are poorly chosen rehashing set ups from the old tv series .  master shots pepper the action scenes , destroying any flow of kinetic quality they may have had .  mr . schumacher is a good director .  one just has to look back on the films " the lost boys " , " cousins " ( an underrated film ) and " the client " to know that .  but " batman and robin " comes off as a mated made for tv movie .  the film has no style of individuality .  it is the cinematic equivalent to jell-o , pretty to look at , but empty .  it is unfortunate that this film , even with it's surprisingly strong box office has succeeded in doing what warner's thought tim burton would do with the franchise .  kill it .  joel schumacher's " batman & robin " is loud , colorful , action packed , and ultimately . .  boring .  stars . 
pos@ eric rohmer's " pauline at the beach , " is one of those small , deliberately paced , but charming foreign films in which not much happens plot wise , but a lot happens to the characters emotionally .  the film takes place during a few weeks of august at the normandy coast , and centers on six different characters , primarily pauline ( amanda langlet ) , a wise beyond her years 15-year-old who has come to stay for the summer with her older cousin , marion ( arielle dombasle ) .  on the first day at the beach , marion runs into an old high school flame ( fedoore atkine ) , and although he wants to rekindle their relationship , she is more interested in an older , more seductive womanizer ( pascal greggory ) , who is also secretly having an affair with a candy vendor ( rosette ) .  while pauline watches as an outsider at what is happening between all of the adults , she forms a relationship of her own with a young teenage boy ( simon de la brosse ) .   " pauline at the beach , " is not a film in which big dramatic things occur , and there is not a clear-cut , tidy conclusion to the story .  instead , it is a picture that simply observes its characters in every day life , and the surprises come from little character details . the film is quite talky and slow moving , and so it is pretty safe to say it isn't for those who are only a fan of action movies , but is a treat for those viewers who often like to venture outside of the big-budget genre and see a good art film .  this is the first film by acclaimed director eric rohmer ( 1969's " my night at mauds , " and 1971's " claire's knee " ) that i have seen , but his direction is assured and intelligent , as is the screenplay , which he also wrote .   " pauline at the beach , " is a film worth seeing . 
neg@ in " twilight , " a ex-alcoholic , ex-cop , ex-husband , ex-private-eye , harry ross ( paul newman ) , works for a pair of aging hollywood actors , catherine ( susan sarandon ) and jack ames ( gene hackman ) .  jack is being blackmailed , and he asks harry to deliver the payoff .  instead of the blackmailers , harry finds a dying ex-cop ( m .  emmet walsh ) .  as more bodies begin to pile up , harry realizes that he will have to solve the disappearance of catherine's first husband twenty years earlier to find out who's willing to kill to keep that secret buried .  newman . sarandon .  hackman .  with an a-list cast of oscar laureates like that , " twilight " would seem very promising .  however , the script is tired and predictable .  it would serve well as a tv-movie-of-the-week , possibly with some 1970's detective hero reprising his role .  the appeal of the project for its stars and its director , robert benton , is nostalgia .   " twilight " wants very much to be a 1940's film noir with alan ladd or dick powell .  all of the standard tropes are here : a hard-boiled p . i .  among the rich and beautiful whose glamour hides sinister secrets , a femme fatale who tempts and confounds the hero , shadowy figures shooting from doorways , dead bodies confronting the hero at every turn , cops dogging his path and interfering with his investigation .  the script offers little originality , and co-authors benton and richard russo seem unaware that what was original in 1948 is a clich ? in 1998 .  elmer bernstein's score is hauntingly melodic and could have been drawn note-for-note from a vintage noir .  the lead actors try hard-none of the three has every made less than a full effort , even when burdened with a bad script .  they try to invest every line and gesture with meaning , and they create a convincing sense of the relationships between the main characters .  harry is fond of jack but is in love with catherine .  jack is dying of cancer and is jealous of harry's love for catherine .  catherine teases harry and enjoys his attention , but her real feelings are hidden beneath a carefully-maintained veneer .   " twilight " wants to be character-driven like " nobody's fool " ( also directed by benton , also starring newman , based on a novel by russo ) was , but the tired script gives the actors too little to work with .   " twilight " also squanders a fine supporting cast : stockard channing ( harry's friend on the police force ) , reese witherspoon ( jack & catherine's bratty kid ) , giancarlo esposito ( the humorous sidekick ) , john spencer ( harry's nemesis on the force ) , liev schreiber and margo martindale ( the blackmailers ) , and james garner ( a cop who bailed movie stars out of trouble ) . 
pos@ pollock starring ed harris , marcia gay harden , tom bower , jennifer connelly screenplay by barbara turner and susan j . emshwiller , based on the book " jackson pollock : an american saga " by steven naifeh and gregory white smith directed by ed harris   * * * for more film , dvd and books about movie reviews , plus annual coverage of the toronto international film festival , visit _film freak central_ - http : //filmfreakcentral . net  | now with search engine * * *   " how do you know when you're finished making love ? "  -jackson pollock to a life magazine reporter on recognizing when you've completed a painting  jackson pollock's " making love " quote is famous , but in practically the same breath , he said a more constructive thing , " it's like looking at a bed of flowers--tear your hair out over what it means . "  it took him sixteen words to do as whole dissertations have tried and failed : equate god and abstract art and offer a kind of backhanded comfort to those confused to the point of resentment by the concept .  the biopic _pollock_ , actor ed harris' directorial debut , reflects the second soundbite in how it accepts pollock's creations as part of the order of things , and should similarly disarm haters of fine art .  arguably more than any other living actor , harris , who also plays _pollock_ , embodies the archetypal working stiff , and his blue-collar demystification of pollock's labour-intensive art , both as performer and director , makes for unpretentious cinema .   ( from what i know of harris , he , like pollock , was not born gifted or lucky ; instead , a strong work ethic is the seed of his success . )  granted , it's possible that _pollock_ will alienate those same viewers perplexed by the imponderable " purpose " of pollock's splatter series : the common thread between them is a lack of editorializing .  the movie _pollock_ is all purposeful gazes and silent exchanges dotted by tantrums , but the motivations are left to our own perceptions .  and it is a sympathetic yet not altogether forgiving film , as illustrated by a disheartening conclusion .  _pollock_ encapsulates the period in which he fought a losing battle against personal demons ( alcoholism , depression , and the general attendant miseries of an artist ) while finding a place of subconscious expression .  a brief introduction to pollock's raging drunk side segues into his getting accosted by a fellow new york artist , lee krasner ( marcia gay harden , awarded a best supporting actress oscar for this brilliant portrayal ) , who works from the outside-in , pre-intellectualizing every stroke of her brush .  in a scene after they have moved in together and established adjoining studios , she asks what he hopes to achieve on his latest canvas , grilling him about the interplay of cubism and surrealism until he says , " you paint the fucking thing , " and leaves in a huff .  by the time they wed , she has become his de facto manager ; it is form marrying function and chaos marrying discipline , a most harmonious collision .   ( krasner denies him a baby , indicating that it would upset the balance . )  such a union is destined to implode , and i hope i'm not ruining the _pollock_ experience by saying that it does .  while it is never depicted as a very romantic matrimony to start--pollock and wife channel their passions elsewhere--their symbiosis leaves each other picked dry after several years , and it comes down to krasner suffering one of pollock's conniptions too many : " you are killing me !  you are killing me !  you are killing me ! "   ( aside : harris' own wife , amy madigan , is unrecognizable and exceptional as gallery diva peggy guggenheim . )  pollock himself moves on to dalliances with younger women like ruth klingman ( the scorching jennifer connelly ) , hoping , one supposes , to catch the revitalizing whiff of youth .  i love jackson pollock's stuff and i am enamoured of harris' _pollock_ as well .  it's scrappy and observant ; no coincidence that its minor failings are the occasional invasive flourish , such as jeff beal's hummable but no less lamentable score--i can't imagine that pollock , or anyone , would paint to this music , which puts filling soundtrack voids ahead of complementing the images .  one of my favourite sequences is an eerily quiet re-enactment of hans namuth shooting that famous pollock footage in east hampton , long island ; the mounting tension is almost comic , as namuth keeps interrupting pollock's process to reload his camera or take a dinner break .  a more seasoned director might've been too arrogant to admit that not all artists or mediums are created equal . 
neg@  " houston . we have a serious problem . "  after making " mission : impossible " , brian de palma has a lot to live up to .  by making an epic science fiction and inviting great cast and talented crew , he hopes to reach the modern audience .  and the possibilities are certainly there , but the result is a great disaster .  starting in a near future , with a prologue copied from " apollo 13 " , de palma slowly builds up his " story " .  the human race has already set foot on mars .  a research expedition has vanished without trace on the red planet and another one has been sent to find out what happened .  this is basically the whole plot .  so it's hard to imagine that it can be stretched to 2 hours .  but de palma manages to do that .  it is not a very good achievement .  as we follow this expedition to mars and watch them slowly float in space , the hardest thing to do is stay awake .  the film's major problem is that it tries to seem more clever than it is .  david mamet's dialogue , while trying to seem natural , is distant and simply fake .  de palma and mamet wanted to combine action with a thought provoking plot .  the result is more like an unsuccessful mutation of kubrick's " 2001 : a space odyssey " , " apollo 13 " and " godzilla " .  to make time pass , the creators have inserted several " refreshing " scientific details , that would not convince a half-crazed frog .  it consists of multiple copies and direct ripp-offs from several great science fiction films and stories .  when it finally presents an almost original idea , it falls flat because of its uncovered stupidity .  i can't even call this film predictable , since no one with a healthy imagination can come up with something like this .  sometimes it gets so cheesy , that you'll start laughing when you're supposed to cry and cry when you're supposed to laugh .  you'll see enormous sandstorms , hear mysterious sounds and , last but not least , on this " constantly surprising " tour you'll see -- an alien .  it's really hard to find comparisons to such an experience , and i know that i've never said that before ( i thought i never would ) , but " lost in space " is actually better .  that's an achievement in itself !  director brian de palma has stroke gold with " untouchables " that became an instant american classic .  it is for this film that he will be remembered , while all his other failures will be forgotten .  he'll live to fight another day !  i send the actors my condolences , since they truly do try to transform into their undeveloped and dull characters .  and both the cinematography , production design and art direction are very decent .  it is because of the achievement of 254 people , that i rate this film 2/10 .  unfortunately their hard work was in vain .  if you have problems with insomnia , i recommend you this film .  if you're not asleep within the first half hour , consult your doctor . 
pos@ albert brooks saves the day , just in the nick of time .  with a very poor summer for movies , brooks is just what audiences were looking for to cheer them up , and does so in a positive way .  while this may not be his finest work , " the muse " still shakes up some delightful humor .  in albert brook's latest comedy , he tells a story of a troubled screenwriter ( brooks ) who's losing his edge , as his business partners say .  in desperation , he goes to see his friend jack ( jeff bridges ) , who has been a very successful screenwriter in the past .  he asks jack for some help , and recieves word of a real life muse , that has helped him and many other directors throughout their career .  so brooks seeks the muse named sarah ( sharon stone ) , and is suckered into buying her expensive , food etc . as a sort of payment .  the real punch line however , doesn't come until the end .  it really makes you wonder , how screenwriters really get their ideas , could it simply be from a friend or a bum in the street ?  the idea itself is provoking and brooks does it in a hilarious manner .  speaking of brooks , he was absolutely hysterical as a screenwriter .  every time he graces the screen , i can't help but start laughing .  albert has a very unique sense of humor that makes him a very likeable character .  the real problem with the film lies with sharon stone .  she wasn't likeable at all .  brooks had the right idea with her occupation , but she never pulled through .  in a way , she drained energy from the once funny atmosphere and left it bleak .  luckily brooks could clean up the mess , and cover for stone's mishap .  it was a shame that the film went slightly downhill after her appearance , because " the muse " had the potential to a be a very authentic comedy .  on a brighter note , andie macdowell was also charming as brook's wife .  she is always a nice addition as a supporting actress , because she has that charisma that seems to complete the atmosphere to any film she's in .  the funniest moments in " the muse " in my opinion were the cameos by james cameron and martin scorsese .  i mean imagine , brooks seeing these big named directors in his back yard seeking sharon stone for advice , like it was something out of the ordinary .  it was just plain hilarious .  it just adds to the satire joke , of how directors get ideas .  brilliant move by brooks .  as i mentioned before , the film is a satire much like it's proceeder bowfinger , which came out a few weeks before .  unlike bowfinger , this is not a mean spirited film that's desperate for jokes , it's rather a witty and humorous look at hollywood .   " bowfinger " had it's moments , but had quite a few problems that were never worked out , but " the muse " still managed to keep the laughs despite a bit of a detour .  by the end of the film , you're glad to see a good hearty comedy come out of it .  for once i'm not fully disappointed , because the film didn't slow down , it kept moving , even with some flaws .  thumbs up to brooks for his brave effort .  i think he'll still manage to keep his edge around well into the future . 
neg@ i know there were times during this movie that i laughed pretty hard .  the problem is , i can't remember them as i write this review .  that's not a good sign .  in booty call , jamie foxx is bunz , a character whom i can't really describe , because i don't know that much about him .  i only know that he likes to shoot dice on the sidewalk , and that he doesn't like relationships , just " booty calls " at three in the morning ( no questions , no commitment ) .  bunz has a best friend named rushon ( tommy davidson ) , who seems to be bunz's direct opposite : on the straight and narrow , and currently in a long-term commitment ( a whole seven weeks , wow ! ) .  rushon wants to finally sleep with his girlfriend , nikki ( tamala jones ) , but for a reason which is not totally explained , it's going to happen after a double date with bunz and nikki's friend lysterine ( vivica a . fox ) , who have never met .  to make a long story short , the two couples pair off and spend the rest of the evening having their attempts to do the deed spoiled by nikki's obsession with safe sex .  first she wants condoms , so bunz and rushon go out and get them .  oh , no , they have to be latex , not lambskin .  back to the store .  now they've got to get dental dams , or there'll be no foreplay .  why are both couples stopped each time nikki makes a demand ?  nikki phones lysterine , who lives across the hall , and tells her she'd better be making these demands , too .  talk about coitus interruptus .  booty call is a film that does not know whether it wants to be a regular comedy or one of those over-the-top comedies .  the difference between the two is that in the latter , things constantly happen which are so far removed from reality .  in this category , for example , you have ace ventura : private eye on the mild side , and airplane !  at the extreme .  there are times during booty call where the film steps out of its shell and tries for this status , but then too often quickly retreats to the safety of convention .  it is disappointing , and even worse , distracting .  there are also instances where the screenplay by takashi bufford and bootsie parker ( are those real names ? )  does not live up to its potential , as jokes are left unexploited or even ruined by bad writing .  for instance , there is a scene where our main characters are in a chinese restaurant .  bunz goes up to an asian gangster and speaks to him in fluent cantonese , much to everyone's surprise .  however , when asked how he learned the language , he goes into this explanation of how he started picking up words from late-night kung-fu films , and soon gained mastery .  this negated the ludicrousness of the entire scene .  if , on the other hand , when asked how he learned to speak chinese , bunz simply replied with , " kung-fu movies , " and then moved on , the joke would have been much more effective .  this is because it would have been totally unbelievable , but funny because we know it is unbelievable .  by explaining the point and trying to make the ridiculous plausible , the film is not giving its viewers enough credit .  the inconsistency and uncertain believability unfortunately also raise other questions .  why are two such disparate people like bunz and rushon best friends ?  why do rushon and nikki fix up bunz and lysterine ?  if nikki is so obsessed with safe sex , why doesn't she have some condoms at her own apartment ?  these questions are not answered by the screenplay , but are overlooked for the sole reason of moving the plot forward .  a very noticeable quality of booty call is the prevalence of unnecessary foul language .  some movies use a lot of swear words , but use them under very justifiable circumstances , as when they are employed consistent with a character's pattern of speech .  other films , such as the recent jackie brown , use them in ways that almost parody themselves .  booty call just sticks them in to get laughs , and it doesn't work .  they stick out like sore thumbs because there is almost no reason to use them .  half of the scenes seem to occur for no reason .  the chinese restaurant , a holdup at a convenience store , and a trip to the hospital seem to have nothing to do with the story , and are in there for filler .  this is surprising , considering that the film is less than eighty minutes long .  it's too bad that the core of the film isn't much better , since it is comprised of sometimes funny , but forgettable dialog .  i refer you to the first paragraph of this review . 
pos@ i must admit i'm going to be a bit biased in my review of the new romantic comedy serendipity , because that also defines how i met my current girlfriend .  the magic and mystery of our fated encounter is also embodied in the quirkiness and freshness of the very funny and very romantic serendipity .  i am not a big fan of the romantic comedy genre , but something drew me to this film .  maybe it was the casting of the underrated jeremy piven in a supporting role , and the hilarious eugene levy .  maybe it was my hope that john cusack would get the redemption he justly deserves after such crap as high fidelity , con air , and pushing tin .  but maybe it was because i feel as giddy as a school kid right now with this whole romantic thing currently in my life .  the story of serendipity is simple .  two people , john trager ( john cusack ) and sara thomas ( kate beckinsale , looking ever so hot ) , have a chance encounter over a pair of gloves -- with buck henry smack dab in the middle .  charmed beyond repair , these two knuckleheads grab a sundae together at a caf ? called serendipity , talk about that irresponsible thing called fate and the avenues it leads people down , and spend a few hours at the local ice skating rink .  but with each of them already involved with other parties , sara has john write his name and number on a $5 bill and she writes her name and number on a copy of love in the time of cholera .  sara declares that if this " thing " -- let's just call it love -- is destined to happen , fate will bring them together in the future .  years later and on opposite coasts of america , john and sara -- both engaged but still unsure whether they have found their soul mates -- decide to seek each other out to rest their doubts .  what happens then is an enjoyable and often hilarious cat-and-mouse game with the fates - involving such items as mistaken identity , a graduate homage , john corbett as a freaky new age musician , and eugene levy as an irate and crazed salesman -- to find out if that " thing " was right after all .  fortunately , first-time screenwriter marc klein has sketched strong , well-rounded , characters to propel a predictable and corny narrative .  coupled with deft directing by michael chelsom ( director of the very unfunny town and country and the very funny funny bones ) and the use of time-lapse camera work to illustrate the passage of years -- the film comes off with genuine believability and sincerity .  both piven and molly shannon make nice sidekick characters  on the flipside , films such as you've got mail , made in heaven , and even high fidelity are the quiet inspirations for the film's main journey at hand .  but it's what happens to the unexpecting characters left behind in the romantic wake after john and sara find happiness this is the most unsettling part of the picture . 
neg@ two party guys bob their heads to haddaway's dance hit " what is love ? "  while getting themselves into trouble in nightclub after nightclub .  it's barely enough to sustain a three-minute _saturday_night_live_ skit , but _snl_ producer lorne michaels , _clueless_ creator amy heckerling , and paramount pictures saw something in the late night television institution's recurring " roxbury guys " sketch that would presumably make a good feature .  emphasis on the word " presumably . "  _a_night_at_the_roxbury_ takes an already-thin concept and tediously stretches it far beyond the breaking point--and that of viewers' patience levels .  the first five minutes or so of _roxbury_ play very much like one of the original " roxbury guys " skits .  with " what is love ? "  blaring on the soundtrack , the brotherly duo of doug and steve butabi ( chris kattan and will ferrell ) bob their heads , scope out " hotties " at clubs , and then bump a select few with violent pelvic thrusts .  there is one crucial difference , however--these guys speak .  that little fact has been used as justification for the film's existence , that the butabis' newfound capacity for speech would open up a whole new set of doors for the characters .  the doors opened by director john fortenberry and screenwriters steve koren , ferrell , and kattan are new , that's for sure , but they all lead to comic dead ends .  there is no story per se , only a loosely structured and linked series of subplots .  the brothers literally run into ( or , rather , get run into , as in by car ) richard grieco of _21_jump_street_ fame , and through him they gain entrance into the exclusive roxbury club .  there , they meet a hotshot club owner ( chazz palminteri , conspicuously uncredited--can you blame him ? ) , who takes an interest in an idea of theirs .  meanwhile , the bros' overbearing father ( dan hedaya ) wants them to stop clubbing .  when doug refuses and the dimwitted steve obeys his father , a rift is created between the two .  the narrative messiness of _roxbury_ would have been forgivable if all that went on were the slightest bit funny , but virtually none of it is .  the assembled press audience mostly sat stonily silent throughout the entire film , with the one big exception being a big laugh near the end .  alas , the joke--a rather lazy takeoff on _jerry_maguire_--will only strike a chord with people who have seen that film .  granted , a lot of people _have_ seen _jerry_maguire_ , but the fact that the film's best joke is completely dependent on one's familiarity with another film says a lot about _roxbury_'s lack of inspiration .  that lack of inspiration can be traced back to the insipid characters themselves .  like too many of the skits on the current incarnation of _saturday_night_live_ , " the roxbury guys " is a one-joke sketch that never once suggests that the characters have enough comic life in them to survive outside of the sketch context .  after watching one of the " roxbury " skits on snl , this is what you come away with from the characters : they bob their heads to " what is love ? " ,  bump unsuspecting women , and . . . that's all .  after watching _a_night_at_the_roxbury_ , you'll be left with exactly the same . 
pos@ anyone who saw alan rickman's finely-realized performances in truly madly deeply and sense and sensibility will be unsurprised that the actor-turned-director is a bit of a poet at heart .  however , for those who recall him only as the maniacal villain of die hard and robin hood : prince of thieves , this recognition may be something of a shock .  nevertheless , " poetic " is an excellent term to describe rickman's feature debut as a director , the winter guest .  the film has a simple , unhurried rhythm that uses all of the available elements to fashion a successful whole .  the result is an occasionally haunting , sometimes magical , and always insightful human drama .  the winter guest isn't about resolving plot threads and advancing a story line ; it's about exploring relationships and examining life in all of its stages .  the winter guest does not tell a traditional tale , nor does it ascribe to a conventional narrative structure ? there is no real beginning or end .  instead , we are given an opportunity to observe one day in the lives of eight humans .  they represent both sexes , multiple generations , and a variety of relationships ? male and female ; young , middle-aged , and elderly ; friends , would-be lovers , and kin .  we see expectations fulfilled and disappointed , emotional boundaries eroded , and truths unveiled .  there is comedy and tragedy .  most importantly , much of what transpires during the course of the winter guest will find an echo in our own lives ? in this fiction can be found much truth .  the setting is small town in scotland on the coldest day of the year .  it's so frigid that the sea has begun to freeze over .  the onshore wind cuts like a knife and snow blankets the beach , giving the terrain an alien appearance .  it is against this backdrop that the relationships of the film are captured .  there are four pairings , and , although there is some interaction between the different twosomes , the winter guest's focus is on the dynamics internal to each relationship .  the first , meatiest pairing is that of elspeth ( phylida law ) and her recently-widowed daughter , frances ( emma thompson ) .  these two have a stormy relationship .  they love each other deeply , but both are stubborn and willful , and neither is willing to admit that they need the other .  much of their interaction is argumentative , but , during the course of a long walk to the frozen shoreline , they come to an unspoken understanding of how much each means to the other .  frances' adult son , alex ( gary hollywood ) , is a lonely young man who has been caring for his mother since the death of his father .  on this day , he meets a girl , nita ( arlene cockburn ) , who has secretly been spying on him for weeks .  although their first encounter is antagonistic ( she throws a snowball at him ) , both quickly become aware of an undeniable attraction .  once they retire to a place where they can be alone , however , things don't go exactly as planned .  lily ( sheila reid ) and chloe ( sandra voe ) are a couple of old friends who are frequent funeral attendees .  death is a topic of endless fascination for them , perhaps because they are so close to it , and they spend their spare time scanning the obituaries , looking for the next funeral or cremation in the area .  it doesn't matter whether or not they knew the deceased .  it's the ceremony that they're interested in .  sam ( douglas murphy ) and tom ( sean biggerstaff ) , a pair of schoolboy chums , are spending this cold february day cutting classes and hanging out at the beach , horsing around , building a small fire for warmth , and walking on the frozen water .  unlike lily and chloe , these two have their entire lives ahead of them .  they are young enough to still believe in magic , but old enough to recognize that the process of crossing into adulthood robs life of the simple joy that only children can experience .  the acting is strong and believable .  the mixture of veteran performers and first-timers is effective , with the most successful choice being the casting of real-life mother and daughter phylida law and emma thompson in the most prominent roles .  there is a chemistry in their interaction that would be hard to replicate with two different , non-related actors .  and , of course , the physical resemblance makes it that much easier to accept elspeth and frances as parent and child .  the winter guest began its life as a stage play in 1995 , with rickman as the director .  four of the film's principals , phylida law , arlene cockburn , sheila reid , and sandra voe , appeared in the theatrical version before moving to the film .  unlike several recent motion pictures adapted from plays , the winter guest has been successfully opened up .  the rough , bleak scottish countryside becomes as much of a character as any of the eight humans .  in fact , considering how important the climate is to every relationship under rickman's microscope , it could be argued that this is the single most important element of the movie .  if you appreciate character studies , the winter guest is a solid effort with enough power to stay with you after you have left the theater . 
neg@ man , this was one wierd movie .  similar to conspiracy theory in that it couldn't decide which genre it is .  the first hour is your standard stock aliens clone , which nicely created an eerie atmosphere about the ship .  the last half hour ?  this was when the makers blew the script out the airlock and just decided - " screw it , let's just kill everybody " .  from then on - forget sci-fi . . . this  movie becomes 100% horror .  what really dissappointed me about this movie was that it tried to scare you in entirely the wrong way .  instead of using clever tricks or trying to build up to a scare - this movie just uses loud noises , sudden camera shifts and short quick bursts of gore . . . . . yawn . . . . everyone's  seen it all before and knows when to expect it .  the one thing that was done well was the lead up to finding out about what happened to the previous crew .  there are skeletons lying around mangled and mashed , but what did this ?  then finally after being painfully restored - the new crew views the video .  the acting isn't too bad at all . . . . . considering what the actors had to work with anyway , as there is no complex or interesting dialogue to speak of .  there was some very nice camerawork in certain sequences though , like when the hull near the bridge of the event horizon is breached and the camera pans back to follow specific objects as they bounce across the deck and are sucked out into space .  this movie could have been so much better .  it had a good experienced cast who deserved more to work with .  there was just nothing new here that any of us haven't seen before in aliens or hellraiser . 
pos@ [note : after claiming otherwise , my appetite was indeed whetted by kenneth branagh's hamlet to search out other attempts to translate shakespeare to film in hopes of finding a better mousetrap .  as it happens , it didn't take long . ]  is there a more romantic director than franco zeffirelli ?  known mainly to american audiences as the man behind 1968's romeo and juliet ( required viewing for many high schoolers , and as much as most ever learn of shakespeare ) , he is also a favorite at the metropolitan opera , where his achingly beautiful designs further the already lush emotion of many a puccini aria .  last year he gave us his beautifully realized version of jane eyre , one of the twin peaks ( with wuthering heights ) of romantic literature .  it might seem peculiar , then , that zeffirelli ever had an interest in translating hamlet for the screen .  at first blush , hamlet is far removed from romance .  the hero , though a prince , is depressed , conflicted and confused .  the ostensible love interest gets little screen time , and her scenes with her prince are usually as an object of mockery .  the plot is full of political intrigue and the players are as cursed as the house of atreus .  it is zeffirelli's genius , however , that he is able to expose the romantic core of hamlet and give the sometimes dry tale an emotional embrace .  in this italian master's hands , romance is everywhere -- in a son's worship of his father , in the bonds of deepest friendship , in the private thoughts of young lovers , even in the mystery of castles by the sea .  after all , the story hinges on a ghost , and what could be more romantic than that ?  what seemed like a cheap way to sell tickets at the time turned out to be one of the most romantic gestures of all , namely , hiring then-reigning hollywood hunk mel gibson to play the lead .  who could believe that the man who made his mark playing mad max and a " lethal weapon " ( in the series of the same name ) would have the skill to succeed in the most famous role in the english language ?  franco zeffirelli , that's who .  and it is apparent in every frame that his instinct was right on the money .  what gibson brings to the role is a naturalness and ease which makes the whole story meaningful , not to mention comprehensible .  his line readings sound spontaneous rather than rehearsed .  his movements and gestures ( excepting his sometimes too active eyes ) are totally in keeping with the character .  this is a hamlet whose pain we feel , whose struggle we empathize with , and whose death we mourn as sincerely as horatio at film's end .  glenn close , the other big name in the production , also does well by the script and satisfies as hamlet's mother , gertrude -- though i must confess i'm still trying to understand the character as written .   ( zeffirelli's incestuous interpretation of hamlet's relationship with his mother doesn't help . )  alan bates makes a believably evil claudius without resorting to the mannerisms of a hollywood heavy .  by and large the rest of the cast performs admirably and comfortably .  of special note are the cinematography by david watkin and the score by ennio morricone .  both support the realistic mood marvelously ( as do the sets and costumes ) , without any overstated effects that declare " this is important ; this is shakespeare ! "  i particularly appreciate that the words are often spoken without any music at all : the melody of a wonderfully wrought phrase is given its due .  perhaps it is difficult to call edited shakespeare " definitive . "  and there are certainly quite a few other filmed versions of hamlet that i have not seen .  but if you've ever felt the urge to overcome your fear of the bard , this hamlet is an excellent place to start . 
neg@ when respecting a director , you must also respect the fact that they are not perfect .  woody allen has made a couple less-than good films , and he's my favorite .  even martin scorsese hasn't had a perfect track record .  kevin smith , after a smashing debut with the classic " clerks " stooped as low to sell-out and make the dreadful " mallrats . "  i mean , so far the only director who's made several films , none of which have been bad is richard linklater ( " slacker , " " dazed and confused , " " before sunrise , " and " suburbia " . . . all  which were great ) .  now , i adore quentin tarantino .  his first two films were classic films , the second one being one of the greatest films of all time .  but 1995 just wasn't that good of a year for him .  he made way too many tv appearances .  he mispronounced jackie chan's name on the mtv movie awards .  and he made this film .   ( he was also awarded an oscar , so i guess that would be a grand exception ) .  robert rodriguez is also a great director ; not a brilliant one , but a cool one .  i've never seen an alexandre rockwell or allison anders film , so i can't comment on them .  but in this crap ensemble director's film , all four give pitiful efforts .  pitiful for any director , too .  now in all fairness , ensemble director pieces never really work out .  i've never seen all of " new york stories , " but have heard the first two films , by scorsese and francis ford coppola are crap ( i saw woody's one , which was hilarious but not totally up to par ) . but i will rate each film individually and then report back to you on the overal average score of the film .  exposition : a simple one - a bellhop , ted ( the totally overdone tim roth , who's a god and all , but not in this one , though he has a couple good moments ) is working on new year's eve for his first shift ( ! ! ! ) in an old fancy hotel .  he's the only one there ( again : ! ! ! ) and he only has a couple rooms ( yet again : ! ! ! ) .  the old bellhop ( the seemingly immortal marc lawrence - who hated pulp fiction actually ) hands over his cap to ted and he goes to his job happily .  as the night goes on , he becomes increasingly annoyed and hostile .  yea .   ( the short films are presented in order , btw ) :  the missing ingredient writer/director : allison anders starring : sammi davis , amanda decadenet , valeria golino , madonna , ione skye , lili taylor , alicia witt  this one starts it off horribly with no plot , no intrigue , and crap dialogue .  the situation is so terrible that it's physically painful to watch .  the plot has something to do with a coven of witches needing sperm to bring back a godess who is ( gasp ! )  stuck inside some object in their hotel room .  the witch that was supposed to bring it ( ione skye ) calls up ted and asks him if she can perform fellatio on him to get it .  yeah , that's what i said .  stupid plot , inane characters who aren't interesting at all , etc , etc , etc . the only good thing about this is it has a good cast which , in turn , it wastes pitifully .  not even actually funny for a second .  my rating ( out of 5 ) : no stars ! ! ! !  the wrong man writer/director : alexandre rockwell starring : david proval , jennifer beals and laurence bender  another bad little film with another stupid sex thing going on .  ted stumbles into the wrong room or something and gets in the middle of a couple ( david proval and jennifer beals in her attempt at " coming back " ) who are playing sex games .  ted tries to escape and we cheer him on so it will end soon .  but at least this has a bit of comedy in it , just not that much .  and david proval has never overacted as much .  and it's " pulp fiction " producer laurence bender who gets to puke from a window .  a masterpiece compared to the first one , but still . . .  the misbehavers writer/director : robert rodriguez starring : antonio banderes , tamlyn tomita , lana mckissack , danny verduzco , salma hayek  would a robert rodriguez film be the same without salma hayek's navel ?  nope .  luckily she's on the tv dancing so we get to see her .  surprisingly enough , when i read the screenplay ( about a year before actually seeing it ) , this one seemed to have the most potential .  it was fast-paced , funny , and well , funny .  but when i watched it , it seemed anti-climactic and only seemed to gain any momentum towards the end when everything happened at once .  antonio overacts nicely and the two kids ( lana and danny ) are funny .  but , as i said , it moves slowly and in that way , it's more painful than funny .  but the ending was stupid and funny at the same time .  oh !  the plot : antonio is a supposed gangster ( assumed , really ) who leaves his two troubling kids home while he and his wife ( tomita ) go out to get drunk at a new year's party .  antonio hires ted for a couple bucks to watch his kids all night long , but things go wrong . . . it  was okay .  the man from hollywood writer/director : quentin tarantino starring : quentin tarantino , bruce willis , paul calderon and jennifer beals ( again )  ironically , this one could be considered the best for a bad reason : it best represents what quentin has done with this film .  he plays chester , a spoiled brat actor or something who has just had a huge box-office hit on his hands and is living it up by playing an anti-climactic game from a hitchcock tv episode starring steve mcqueen and peter lorre where they gamble to see if one of them can get light from his lighter ten times in a row .  they're drunk and need sober but nervous ted to hold the cleaver and bring it down if the lighter doesn't light .  they also pay him a lot of cash .  this is so much exactly what this little film is about that it's campy .  tim roth was probably payed a lot of money to do this stupid part in this stupid film made by a bunch of people who are high on themselves 'cause they've had hits , major or minor .  it took quentin to realize that .  but the thing is , it doesn't seem like he realizes that .  if he did , i'd give this a good 3 stars .  but this sucked .  it was anti-climactic and the dialogue wasn't very good .  he starts off with a very long steadicam shot then goes to flashes .  that makes no sense .  it's cool for a while , then he makes it uneven .  it's long and it's just not very good .  hopefully quentin never repeats what he did with this one .  conclusion : what's the moral here ?  if you've made celebrated films , don't do an ensemble piece .  they should have re-watched " new york stories " and then stopped in their tracks .  none of these have any point to them and they're embarrassing to not only the writer/directors , but to the actors 'cause they're working with crap .  but i will forgive everyone involved and i especially look forward to quentin's next directing job ( even though he and rodriguez jumped back to the top immeadiately with the cool " from dusk till dawn , " which i found exhilerating ) .  i love quentin and i suppose it's good he made " the man from hollywood " because it makes him seem more realistic and not some " god of cinema . "  i seem to respect directors if they aren't " gods " and are actually human beings who make mistakes .   " the man from hollywood " is his big mistake and let's hope he doesn't return her continuously . 
pos@ copyright 1996 graeme huggan carry on henry is all about henry viii and his eight wives !  sid james plays henry , who no sooner has the film started , is getting rid of his present queen and hopes to find another one soon .  as part of his alliance with france , he requests the hand-in-marriage to the queen of normandy ( joan sims ) .  she comes to england in the hope of marrying henry but when he finds out that she loves garlic and has a reeking garlic breath , he is totally averse to the idea of marriage .  henry's court is very corrupt , with the cardinal ( terry scott ) trying to bribe cromwell ( kenneth williams ) and cromwell trying to bribe the king .  there is a state of crisis when the king puts marie the queen ( sims ) in the tower of london ready for execution .  the queen is pregnant but she has not liased with the king before , so fingers are pointed at sir roger de lodgerley played by charles hawtrey , who has a rather lecherous character to play this time .  the cardinal and cromwell decide to get a signed confession from sir roger by using all kinds of torture devices !  owing to circumstances , sir roger is sometimes needed to sign that he is the father and sometimes that he isn't .  this is because of renewed threats by the king of france ( peter gilmore ) to come over himself , which in the end he does .  by then , henry has found himself a new queen , played by none other than barbara windsor !  it looks like he has some explaining to do !  there are stand-out performances by sid james as henry , joan sims as marie , and terry scott in an unusual role as the cardinal .  also there are cameos from kenneth connor and peter butterworth , who plays barbara's father .  the set and costume design is first class and the overall production of this film is good .  there is even an early appearance from david prowse , who later became the green cross code man and darth vader .  the film does have it's downsides though , as it is getting pretty routine for the carry-on team to stage historical films and the inventive streak of the script seems to run out pretty quickly .  there is also the absence of hattie jacques and bernard bresslaw , who could have helped the film along .  however , overall the film is funny and there are plenty of laughs and saucy jokes , so that is why i mainly recommend it to carry on fans only , but there is enough humour in the film to make it worth anyone's while to sit down and watch it . 
neg@ this review contains spoilers , but believe me , i don't say anything you can't guess 10 minutes into the movie .  i * did * go into this one with high expectations .  i had been exposed to media reports that this film would signify a departure from the slasher flicks .  i sort of expected another exorcist or the shining .  i even put aside my general rule of not seeing this type of film .  boy , was i wrong !  another garbage slasher flick , the only difference being that * this * one has a story !  the story , you ask ?  well , a scumball buys a chinese puzzle from a guy in an arab souk .  he takes it home , somehow getting it past customs : - ) and starts fiddling with it in his attic .  lo and behold , after he takes it apart , three demons appear and start taking him apart , but with meat hooks .  when they're finished , his gizzards are hanging from the ceiling .  they botch up their cleanup job , however , and manage to leave his heart ( or some gland ; i didn't really recognize the organ ) under a floorboard .  the guy's brother and his brother's wife appear at the door soon after , and decide to move in .  they throw away scumball's belongings , and set up house .  turns out that wife is a bit of a nympho , and screwed around with scumball right before her marriage .  she starts having some wild hallucinations .  later , hubby spills some blood on the attic floorboards ( slow-mo special effects of the buckets of blood hitting the ground--all from the tiny cut on his hand ) .  said blood is eagerly sucked up by scumball's organ .  the organ grows into a thing that requires yet more blood in order to complete the regeneration into a really ugly thing .  it establishes mind contact with wife , who agrees to help him get more blood , because she really wants to be screwed again .  so , she helps him kill three businessmen .  scumball , at this time , gradually gets his strength back and grows all his organs back .  problem is , he doesn't have any skin , and even after three or four corpses , still doesn't get any skin .  he finally gets some , though , but strangely enough , he ends up looking like his brother .  guess they couldn't get the original actor back .  who knows .  scumball ( whose name is frank ) is not a nice guy .  he describes his torture by the demons fondly , as the " ultimate pleasure and pain , since at that level there is no difference between the two . "  somehow , i don't see getting torn apart by 90 fish- and meat-hooks a lot of fun .  this guy is * so * bad ( " how bad * is * he ? " ) ,   * so * bad that the * rats * cower in a corner in fear .  for good reason , too ; he crucifies two of them for fun , and carves a third while the nympho's horsing around with hubby .  anyway . hubby's daughter ( who , if course , is not * wife's * daughter ) starts to suspect something is wrong after she sees wife going into the attic with one of her johns and the ensuing screams .  the dumb bimbo meets scumball , and is not impressed .  she manages to escape with the chinese puzzle , and brings out the demons .  at any rate , the demons are pissed off that they screwed up their cleanup ; they're normally quite meticulous about that type of thing .  the story boils down to the demons trying to correct their mistake .  the demons are not , however , the good guys .  the dumb bimbo's the good guy .  she somehow not only gets them to take care of frank , but also banishes them to hell or oblivion , we're not too sure which .  not too shabby for someone with single-digit iq .  this is basically a " bad jinn " story .  it is an * awful * movie .  awful acting , bad focus in the photography , many scenes of skin being penetrated by meathooks , which is really unrealistic , and looks like the latex that it is .  continuity ?  who cares .  acting ?   * terrible * .  script ?  horrible .  sounds canned .  unrealistic .  story is so-so , but the impact is lost long , long before the film ends .  i do think the * rat * acting was quite good .  i have never seen rats look afraid .  they should get nominated for an award .  really good acting there , the best in the movie .   " the envelope for best furry rodent , please . . . "  a " " rating would be far too generous .  a " 1/10 " rating ( or -4 in the -4 to +4 rating system ) is far more accurate .  this movie is so bad that people in the audience were laughing , chortling at the bad acting and crummy dialog .  i can see this film turning into the next rocky horror picture show .  people were getting so fed up they were yelling warnings up to the characters on the screen .  had to have something to do .  dumb , dumb , dumb movie .  i was embarrassed that i spent money to see it .  it goes without saying that i disagree with the other reviews on the board that attempt to review the film for itself .  lots of slime and red-dyed corn syrup does not constitute " horror , " in my opinion . 
pos@ david mamet has long been my favorite screenwriter and director .  with his distinctive , more often than not ingenious dialogue , and his laid back style of direction nearly all of his movies are absolutely irresistible .  some of them tend to be thickly layered , deceptive productions that require the audience to look at the film in a less superficial manner than the plot seems to require in order to discern its concealed message , or sometimes even a concealed storyline .  and although the real plot in his new project the winslow boy is slightly more conspicuous than in some of his other endeavors , it is still a brilliantly complex , consistently riveting motion picture about honor , about sacrifice , and about the difference between what is commonly known as justice and what is right .  oh , and it's rated g .  incidentally , this is the first time that mamet has decided to adapt someone else's work ; namely a play by terrence rattigan , set in the 19th century .  he casts nigel hawthorne in the lead role as arthur winslow , a rich , aging man who finds out that his 14 year old son ronnie has been kicked out of the naval academy for allegedly stealing a 5 shilling postal note .   " did you do it ? " he asks his boy .   " no father , i didn't , " ronnie answers .  that's enough for arthur , who , with his oldest daughter ( rebecca pidgeon ) , immediately starts a crusade to bring his son's case to court .  they enlist the help of sir robert morton , a notorious attorney to help them achieve that formidably daunting task .  it all seems fairly frivolous , and no matter how you look at it , the winslow case is not the trial of the century .  but arthur is determined to keep his family's word clean and he is willing to go quite far to make sure of that .  soon enough , sir robert morton along with the rest of the country becomes equally wrapped up in the proceedings .  so do we .  all david mamet does for the script is tighten and hone the dialogue , but his style is still fairly apparent .  the characters still talk in his trademark staccatto lines and there is still tension present in conversations that no ordinary writer would be able to make tense .  but this is not mamet's norm , and it's refreshing to see mamet deviate from his world of crooks , gangsters as con men , wonderful as those films were .  nigel hawthorne's performance is nearly flawless .  his delivery is that of a dignified yet not pompous man who seems to be getting beaten at his own game .  we pity the man , but we also like him .  rebecca pidgeon , david mamet's wife , who gave a fairly awful performance in the spanish prisoner is at the top of her game here as arthur's oldest daughter , a flailing feminist who gives her all to the winslow case as a way for making up for her lack of success in the women's suffrage movement .  the winslow boy is a wonderful movie that avoids cliches such as a seemingly inevitable courtroom scene and shoots higher -- it wants to make a real impact rather than a phony one .  be honest : did you feel anything profound at or after the courtroom scenes in films like a time to kill ?  if you wanted to but didn't , this is a movie for you .  it is the epitome of subtlety : it's powerful without being too emotional , sad without even trying to be depressing .  david mamet can churn out some great scripts , but in this movie he proves to those who ever doubted it once and for all that he is a hell of a director too .  he is almost a national treasure .  his films deserve their own genre .   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
neg@ this well-conceived but ultra sugary coming-of-age film is not for everyone , and i include myself as one of those who found it too sappy for my digestion .  joseph cross ( joshua beal ) is a 10-year-old who is saddened by the recent loss of his grandfather ( loggia ) to bone marrow cancer .  loggia is wonderful in relating to the child in such a wholesome manner , it almost saves this film from drowning in syrup .  the beals are like a sitcom idyllic family , where everyone is just so nice and affluent , and properly religious without being fanatical .  the beals , the father ( denis leary ) and his wife ( dana delany ) , are both successful doctors ; julia stiles plays joshua's older sister , needling her younger brother but also showing that she really cares about him .  this is a family seemingly conceived in heaven , but living in south philadelphia , sending their children to a well-run catholic school .  joshua , the protagonist and the narrator of this yarn , is a handsome , sweet , intelligent , friendly , and endearing child , who does well in school , relates to the nuns and priests , and talks politely to his well-meaning parents .  all this mawkish interplay makes it almost too nauseating to watch .  the plot arises when joseph has a problem coping with the death of his beloved grandfather , who promised to be with him forever .  his answer is to search for god , pretty heady stuff for a youngster his age to do , but that's just the way it is , sometimes .  this search for god takes us nowhere because , as his friend david ( reifsnyder ) says , where can you look for him if he doesn't exist .  now , that's a smart kid .  but joseph looks for him in the usual places , and what better place than to start in the parochial school he attends .  one of his teachers is the kind-hearted sister terry ( rosie o'donnell ) , who wears a philly baseball hat and equates the jesus stories with baseball , making him the clean-up hitter , and in my opinion , if she wasn't a big tv star , would have a vocation as a parochial school teacher , she is that convincing .  throughout the film , she is saved from answering any tough ( sic ! )  question about god by the bell , as it rings to end the class .  nothing much happens in the search for god , there is no parody of the catholic school ; though a visiting cardinal is found by the boy not to be able to talk to god , but this is gentle stuff , no real criticism or search for god is attempted .  what comes next into play is some hollywood hokum , which is designed not to upset anyone , as joseph has a reassuring encounter with a real , live angel , a blond little boy his own age and dressed like him in the catholic school uniform who wears the innocuous smile of a goody-goody .  the film ends as this angel ( ! ! ! )  tells him his grandfather is all right .  his quest is ended , as apparently angels don't have wings and are approachable ; and god , well , . . .  maybe that's for another film down the road .  this part of the film was the final straw for me , i couldn't swallow any more goo .  as this film flopped commercially , his next one , the sixth sense , pared down the schmaltz and came up smelling like a rose .  though if you look through the cleverness of both scripts , this director is loaded with hokum , all he has learned how to do , is hide the hokum better .  well , god bless him , if he can do that .  this is a nice family picture and there is room for it in hollywood .  it's just too bad that it had nothing relevent or even truthful to say about death , children in a parochial elementary school , or for that matter , about god .  and that family of his , they're too good for words .  yet the film meant well and its benign message had its heart in the right place .  for those who want to see something soft , without a bite to it , this is the one . 
pos@ in arguably the most anticipated movie this century , george lucas has achieved a very mixed reaction to a sure blockbuster .  despite the fact the script and plot is a bit of a let down , the entire movie on the whole can be considered a milestone in technical excellence , in the sound and special effects department .  in terms of characters , by far the most outstanding and interesting is queen amidala ( natalie portman ) , whose mature performance far exceeds her tender 14 years of age .  she is one ? hot' babe who defines true ? woman leadership' .  she not only has a presence , but knows how to take command of the situation and save her planet from ruination .  no thanks to the jedi knights who although led by the force , lack leadership qualities in terms of thinking up a plan to do anything .  the young obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) who has a bad hair day in every scene , gets to kill a bad guy in the end , but lacks a love interest to make him a desirable sort of hero .  in fact all the jedi knight are a bit asexual - there must be something about the force which makes them all hermits and loners .  i mean it would be interesting to see yoda's girlfriend for a change , if he has one .  not much better is qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) who mostly broods , and has a better hair do than obi-wan , but only to find the young anakin skywalker and make the biggest mistake of his life .  also fascinating is george lucas ? metoclorian' theory , which claims that micro-organisms live within our cells and tie us to the fabric of the universe .  and it is the high concentrations of these organisms in an individual which make them particularly powerful in the force .  more humerous are the claims to the immaculate conception of darth vader , no doubt a concept stolen from the christian faith , except there will be no christmas to celebrate the birth of this dark emissary of the force .  overall an experience which is not to be missed because of the very fact that it's predecessor almost command a viewing of this inferior successor .  by all means not the pinnacle of the star wars phenomena but an adequate addition to the clan .  watch out for the next one , it should be one steamy encounter between queen amidala and anakin skywalker - who i believe should be portrayed by ? leonardo di caprio . 
neg@ are you like me ?  do you get annoyed seeing people talk on their cellulars in public places , shouting out loud , not giving a ratt's ass about anyone around them , and basically just wallowing in their own self-importance ?  well if you are , than you will most likely agree with my rating of this film since it basically features a trio of annoying ladies bickering away on the phone for an hour and a half . . . only to make up and hug in the end .  aaaaaaaahhhh . . .  plot : three grown-up sisters living their own separate lives , begin to re-establish their communication lines when their dear old dad falls ill .  critique : this would be a good movie if it wasn't for the fact that it's got very little to say , features uncaring people sharing annoying phone conversations , is chockfull of bad acting moments and provides less emotional satisfaction than any third-rate after-school special .  and i'm being nice !  how junk like this gets made is beyond me , but happy am i that the ephron sisters will finally be dealt a professional blow , considering the regurgitation level of their material had just about reached its limit .  the only true emotional moment demonstrated between meg ryan's character and her dad in this film is when he hugs her and swings her around at a christmas tree lot .  wow . . . how  deep .  of course , the same christmas tune that's played in every ephron flick chimes out in the background , while characters continue to build " bonds " among one another by making reference to old , quaint movies or movie stars .  stop me . . . i'm  gonna cry again !  this film is a mess .  the characters are boring and irritating to watch , the plot has something to do with three selfish sisters talking on the phone a whole lot , kind of liking their father ( but not really ) and then finally realizing the error of their ways , while sharing an " emotional " moment about movie stars from the 50s .  admittedly , i was not expecting much from a film whose television trailer features meg ryan screaming every two seconds and a big dog rolling its eyes , but even i was surprised at the level of ineptitude when it came to some of the acting efforts put forth in this film .  meg did fine as the sister who cries a lot , looking as adorable as ever , but someone please put lisa kudrow inside a permanent home of limited range , cause this woman basically is that very same character that she plays in every single movie/tv show that she's in .  enough already !  and diane keaton must've spent more time thinking about her role behind the camera in this one , cause her acting was amateurish at best .  neither one convinced in " emotional " scenes .  granted , they gave walter matthau the best lines in the film and that's probably where my rating of three points comes from .  all in all , this movie is not funny ( unless you're one to chuckle at train wrecks ) , provides zero drama ( unless you consider loud phone conversations moving ) , generates absolutely no emotion ( although i did tear up when meg hugged a coffee machine ) and ends on a perfectly pretentious note ( " oh no , please don't get any flour on my donna karan dress ! ) .  ugh .  i suggest that all ladies take their husbands/boyfriends to see this movie if they are pissed off at them about something !  that'll teach 'em to mess with you !  oh and incidentally , mrs . joblo also likened this movie to a piece of cow dung flailing in the wind , so there !  then again . . . maybe  you'll like it .   : ) 
pos@ the party is one of those classic slapstick comedies that will leave you , at times , cracking up .  the film takes place , for the most part , in real-time during an exclusive evening party that is attended only by the biggest names in hollywood .  hrundi v . bakshi , played very well by peter sellers , is a struggling actor who just came to america from his homeland , india .  hrundi tries out his acting talents , but it seems that he just isn't cut out for the job .  on the set of his current film that he stars in , hrundi seems to make everything go for the worse .  during the filming of this movie set in the 1800's , hrundi manages to annoy the director ( herbert ellis ) in any way he can .  this includes a pitiful acting job in many scenes , wearing an underwater watch in one scene , and accidentally detonating a massive set .  many of the hollywood producers and big names want hrundi out of the business forever .  and when the director makes a personal phone call to mr . clutterbuck ( j .  edward mckinley ) pleading for hrundi's ejection from hollywood , everything is pretty much over for hrundi .  clutterbuck writes his name down on a piece of paper to insure that hrundi will never again work in hollywood .  but when this piece of paper turns out to be the guest list for clutterbuck's exclusive party , hrundi is invited , and certain chaos is bound to occur .  of course , as predicted , hrundi causes lots of trouble .  each scene in which hrundi encounters a situation , usually one that he can't handle , is almost always very humorous .  and each scene with hrundi and the drunken waiter , who is alone hilarious , adds to the comedy in a great way .  the party can be compared to many other films of it's type , specifically the trio of naked gun movies and the airplane movies , but the party is a delightful movie that incorporates very well played out comedy into believable situations .  it also includes a number of memorable scenes ( can anyone say " birdy num-num " ? ) .  if you're in the mood for fun and enjoyable slapstick comedy , check out the party .  it's not going to be one of your all-time favorites , but if you enjoy this type of humor , you'll enjoy the party . 
neg@ phew , what a mess !  for his fifth collaboration with director rich- ard donner ( lethal weapon i-iii , maverick ) , mel gibson plays a motormouth , maybe mentally ill new york city cabbie , jerry , whose wild conspiracy theories are all but ignored by alice ( julia roberts , acting all serious ) , the justice department employee that he has a crush on .  she not interested , but another person is : a cia psychiatrist ( patrick stewart ) who promptly kidnaps him .  is one of jerry's conjectures correct ?   * is * the metal strip in the new $100 bill being used to track your movements ?  is oliver stone still alive , because he cut a deal with george bush to spread * dis * information ?  is this movie really about * any * of the crazed cabbie's theories ?  no , no , and no .  as it turns out , there's some other nonsense going on here , involving and revolving around jerry's background .   ( hint : pay attention to an early scene where jerry blacks out and flashes back , in quick succession , to images of an interrogation room , hypodermic needles , and ms . roberts herself . )  the * initial * premise is pretty good and is played , for a while , at a delightfully dizzying clip .  mel is wider-open that we've ever seen him and , if his character's relationship with roberts' initially strains credibility , their combined star power is blissfully intoxicating .   ( the highest wattage of the summer , perhaps ? )  even when the plot contrivances begin to intrude , the two remain a randy dandy screen pair .  there's a great scene in jerry's fortress , er , apartment , with alice trying to act casual as her hyperactive host tries to remember the combination to a locked coffee bean container .   ( which he stores in another locked con- tainer , his fridge . )  other hilarious moments , of which there are many , include a trio of memorable convention-breakers , where alice ditches a tail , jerry cold-cocks someone , and , later , eludes a foot pursuit , each in a uproariously unexpected fashion .   ( that's donner's own ladyhawke playing in the theater , btw . )  let's see , other pleasures include . . .  a brilliant title sequence , a jazzy score from carter burwell , and the worth-paying-to-see sight of roberts pumping lead into one bad guy and slamming another's head into a wall .  oh , pretty woman !  getting to the latter , however , requires slogging through an increasingly overburdened and ultimately unappealing story .  the last hour of conspiracy theory devolves from tolerable to torturous to almost unwatchable .  more stuff happens of the stupid shit variety than is worth mentioning here , except , perhaps , for a late sequence that has alice locating jerry in an abandoned wing of a mental hospital by hearing his voice carrying through the air ducts .  and here i thought it was wabbit season .  good god , who rewrites these movies ?  and do they arrive in nondescript black vehicles ? 
pos@ this summer , one of the most racially charged novels in john grisham's series , a time to kill , was made into a major motion picture .  on january 3 of this year , director rob reiner basically re-released the film under the title of ghosts of mississippi .  based on the true story of 1963 civil rights leader medgar evars' assassination , ghosts of mississippi revolves around the 25-year legal battle faced by myrlie evars ( whoopi goldberg , sister act ) and her quest to have her husband's obvious assassin and racist byron de la beckwith ( james woods , casino ) jailed .  so she turns to assistant district attorney and prosecutor bobby delaughter ( alec baldwin , heaven's prisoners ) to imprison the former kkk member .  ghosts sets its tone with an opening montage of images from african-american history , from slave-ship miseries to life in the racist south of the 1960's .  but all too soon , the white folks take over , intoning lines like " what's america got to do with anything ?  this is mississippi ! "  as beckwith , james woods , with his head larded with latex most of the time as an old man , teeters between portraying evil and its character .  meanwhile , goldberg turns in a very serious and weepy performance as the wife who wouldn't let her husband's death rest until she got the conviction .  both deserve serious oscar-consideration .  this brings us to the dull performance of baldwin .  let's face it , trying to match matthew mcconaughey's wonderful acting in a time to kill is basically impossible .  and baldwin is living proof of this , as no emotions could be felt .  it seemed as if he actually had to struggle to shed a single tear .  either poor acting or poor directing , but something definitely went wrong .  another strange mishap was the fact that goldberg's facial features didn't change , as she looked the same in the courtroom as she did holding her husband's dead body 25-years earlier .  yet woods' was plastered with enough make up to make him look like goldberg's father .  at least the make-up was realistic .  with some emotional moments in the poorly written script , ghosts of mississippi lacked in heart , when its predecessor , a time to kill , brought tears to everyone's eyes .  don't get me wrong , the movie wasn't all that bad , but if you've seen grisham's masterpiece , then don't expect this one to be an excellent film .   , 
neg@ susan granger's review of " american outlaws " ( warner bros . )  thomas edison's " the great train robbery " ( 1903 ) was the first western ever made and " jesse james under the black flag " ( 1923 ) first introduced the outlaw folk hero .  now , more than 20 similarly-themed pictures later , jesse james and his notorious gang of outlaws ride again in a banal mtv spin on an american legend .  the story begins as jesse ( charasmatic colin farrell ) and his brother frank ( gabriel macht ) , cole and scott younger ( scott caan , will mccormack ) and trusty comanche tom ( nathaniel arcand ) , after four years of fighting for the rebs in the civil war , return to liberty , missouri - only to discover union troops are occupying their hometown .  and an avaricious east coast railroad baron , thaddeus rains ( harris yulin ) , is forcing farmers to sell their land at less than true value , aided by allan pinkerton ( timothy dalton ) and his infamous detectives who , back then , were just thugs who provided security .  but when ma james ( kathy bates ) becomes one of their victims , jesse and the rest of the guys ( gregory smith , ty o'neal , joe stevens ) form the james-younger gang to wreak revenge by attacking the railroad's supply lines , sabotaging track and robbing the banks where the payroll is kept .  plus there's romance - between jesse and a spunky hometown gal , lee mimms ( ali larter ) .  working from a politically-correct , clich ? -drenched , sanitized and revisionist screenplay by roderick taylor and john rodgers , director les mayfield keeps the action fast-paced and goes for lightweight laughs when he can .  the choppy editing hurts but russell boyd's cinematography , luke reichle's designer duds and trevor rabin's music lend authenticity .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " american outlaws " is a galloping , formulaic 3 .  it's the wild west re-visited as a date movie . 
pos@ razor blade smile running as part of the vancouver international film festival played october 2nd and 4th , 1998 .  official release : halloween  reviewed by vince yim  `you think you know all about vampires . . . believe  me . . . you  know f * ck all . '  with these words , we are brought into the world of a sultry vampire seductress by the name of lilith silver ( played by eileen daly ) .  made into an immortal a century and a half ago by the sinister ethan blake , she continues to alleviate boredom with her state of being .  so , what's an undead girl to do , except squeeze into the tightest fitting clothes possible , get out her guns , seduce a few guys , and kill a few people for money and blood ?  with that out of the way , let me say this .  this film is bad .  this film is really , really bad .  yet somehow , it is strangely enjoyable .  with all the elements of a direct to video horror flick ? buxom babes , gore , cheesy dialogue , and bad acting ? any casual film viewer would be more inclined to spend their money on renting innocent blood or going to see blade .  still , it is considered to be one of the finest british vampire film .  agreed , it might be , but is far from being the best vampire flick ever .  period .  razor blade smile has some rather high production values , shown by the nice overall tone to the film .  the film is also a bit of a departure from popular vampire lore , with a vampire that can go out in broad daylight without disintegrating , doesn't sleep in a coffin ( but leaves one next to her computer ) , and sees religion as the `opium of the peoples' ( hence , immunity to crosses ) .  but aside from that , it doesn't stray too far away from horror film conventions .  that is , unless that is intentional .  razor blade smile literally goes for the throat , then pumps the wound full of processed cheese .  you can't help but laugh when a female vampire gets decapitated and her severed head goes flying into a puddle .  you'll laugh even harder at the hideously contrived situations ( to distract two female guards , lilith tosses a cellular phone towards them and dials the number ) .  you'll laugh the hardest when a murder witness recants the tale and suddenly starts sobbing uncontrollably .  and then , there's the sudden twist ending ( i have enough heart not to give it away ) .  the film refuses to take itself seriously , which is a good thing , as by the time lilith zips up her skin-tight body suit and then unzips it just to show the right amount of cleavage , you've most likely forgotten the main point of the story .  but in case you really care , she's been assigned to kill a bunch of people who belong to the so-called illuminati , and she's leaving a huge mess behind for the police to find .  as much as my criticisms , this movie works best as a guilty pleasure or as a film that you watch with your friends and within groups .  almost destined for cult-status , the film's campy , cheesy overtones actually work towards the film .  while this may not necessarily be the film you'd want to be seen watching by yourself , it makes for a fun time at the movies . 
neg@ lauded as a genius by many , stanley kubrick commands a superlative filmography that includes such critically-acclaimed films as " 2001 : a space odyssey , " " a clockwork orange , " " lolita , " and " dr .  strangelove , or : how i learned to stop worrying and love the bomb . "  now , sadly , he's added " eyes wide shut " to that impeccable body of work and his final film is the first and only blot on his near-flawless copybook .  kubrick , alas , should have quit while he was ahead .  this much-publicized psycho-sexual tease-a-thon , with its star billing of real-life marrieds tom cruise and nicole kidman , is nothing more than one long ( two-and-a-half hours long ) boring exercise that features kubrick operating with talent wide shut .  kubrick , faithless to arthur schnitzler's 1926 novella " dream story , " has confused eroticism with nudity .  he has confused intellectualism with talking slowly .  he has confused profundity with pretentiousness .  in addition , the director has made some strange casting choices , leaving sydney pollack in and leaving accomplished performers harvey keitel and jennifer jason leigh out .  pollack , the director of such box-office hits as " tootsie " and " out of africa , " is normally solid in his occasional acting stints but here he's miserably out of his depth . . .  and there isn't much depth to begin with !  unhappily , there's not likely to be a director's cut of this film to determine whether the decision to exorcise keitel and leigh was the right one .  in fact , with the exception of the stark black-and-white credits , snatches of baroque music on the soundtrack , and many , many grainy tracking shots down lavishly-decorated corridors , there's none of kubrick's trademark brilliance in this film .  it doesn't help that the story , as delivered , is ridiculous .  cruise and kidman , who bring little more than marital torpor to the project , play well-to-do new yorkers bill and alice harford .  he's a doctor and she's an unemployed art gallery director and they share a central park west address .  at an opulent party hosted by their friend victor ziegler ( pollack ) , alice gets a little tipsy and starts dancing with a jeremy irons-like hungarian , who's singularly determined to get her in the sack .  bill , too , is seen arm-in-arm with a couple of models before he's pulled away to deal with an overdoser .  back home , bill and alice smoke a little pot before alice's aggressive jealousy kicks in .  as retribution , she confesses to her husband that she once had deep feelings for a naval officer she eyeballed at a hotel where she and bill once stayed .  this hurtful admission sends bill into a tailspin ; he pounds the streets of the village in his heavy black overcoat struggling with black-and-white images of alice in the grip of a horny midshipman .  it's all way too much for him .  for revenge , bill almost has sex with a hooker .  he almost has feelings for a underage girl he sees in a costume store .  then he almost does the hooker's roommate .  and he's almost involved in an overblown rococo orgy when an old college chum of his tips him off to a mysterious , password-protected party where everyone wears masks and " the women are incredible " ( i . e . , naked ) .  this " erotic " set piece , a cult-ish bacchanal complete with chanting , incense , and lots of strategically-placed partygoers covering up the dirty , might impress the likes of hugh hefner , but it's a lot less shocking than it's intended to be .  what's the big deal ?  bill doesn't exactly * do * anything ( other than throw his money and credentials around ) , and alice only ever lusted in her heart .  whoop-dee-doo .  still , they make up at the same agonizingly slow pace--was kubrick , notorious for multiple takes , paying them at an hourly rate ?  even geniuses have their bad days .   " eyes wide shut " just happens to be kubrick's bad day , an unerotic , disappointing , and altogether pointless end to an otherwise memorable career . 
pos@ capsule : a rock and roll fable , indeed .  like a hubert selby , jr . novel filtered through equal parts damon runyan and bruce springsteen , and a ton of fun .  streets of fire bills itself as " a rock and roll fable " , and the description is perfect .  this is a stylish , great-looking , and breezily enjoyable movie that feels like a hubert selby , jr . , novel with a damon runyan rewrite , irected by bruce springsteen .  noir is one of the few truly american movie genres , aside from the hollywood musical and the western .  this is post-wwii brooklyn noir , for lack of a better label , with a generous injection of rock 'n roll and an all-around confrontational attitude .  it all works .  the plot is simplicity itself : rocker ellen aim ( diane lane ) is kidnapped by a vicious street gang , led by a bloodthirsty fellow named raven ( willem dafoe , very nasty ) .  her old soldier flame ( played by michael pare ) comes back into town to save her , but doesn't count on a whole bunch of things going askew .  that's about the entire plot , save for the spats with ellen's manager ( a hilarious rick moranis ) , an encounter with a doo-wop group that winds up becoming ellen's supporting act , and a whole gang of other fun little touches .  but in movies like this , when is the plot important ?  the movie is all style , all visuals and attitudes , quotable lines and posturing -- and it delivers all those things consistently and with great brio and pacing .  no surprise that it was directed by walter hill ( 48 hrs . ) , who understands this kind of macho romanticism perfectly , and has put together a movie that's a mixture of times and sensibilities , but perfectly unified in tone .  when was the last time you could say something like that about a movie , especially a movie where it seems like someone gets decked on the jaw ( * and * passes out ) every 2 . 63 minutes on cue ?  streets of fire isn't the greatest movie ever made , but it occupies a totally unique little niche , and enjoys the position it has .  anyone with a weakness for doo-wop , neon , motorcycles , rainy streets , the el , studebakers , gang pictures , lonely heroes , and a great-looking gal giving the microphone both lungs will eat this movie up .  i did . 
neg@ i have never seen a man so in love with himself than george lucas .  with the overt success of the three original star wars films , lucas has become , not necessarily a filmmaker , but the head cheeze at a huge toy company , with the phantom menace the new product on the shelve .  only this toy was made for $115 million , but every kid wants it , and , like all other expensive toys , falls apart within an hour after playing with it .  the product in question , star wars episode 1 : the phantom menace ( jeez ! ) , is pure and simple : its about the money , baby !  no one in their right mind would create such a fiasco if they knew it wouldn't make a ton of money before its fourth week of release .  i come to the sw franchise as a stranger , since i have absolutely no idea why the sw movies are so popular .  i find them rather boring and full of nothing but eye candy .  phantom menace is like the first sw , minus 10 .  nothing in the whole concept is remotely enjoyable .  even the special effects seem rather bland .  the story in this new one is a mindless mess . . . the  acting wooden . . . and the action sequences like something out of a video game .  sw : phantom menace is one of the worst films of the year so far .  with a title like sw e1 : tpm , lucas has one big head on those shoulders .  i thought chris carter did for releasing an x-files movie , although , that movie adaptation was an excellent way to spend two hours .  pm is one long headache . 
pos@ having not seen , " who framed roger rabbit " in over 10 years , and not remembering much besides that i liked it then , i decided to rent it recently .  watching it i was struck by just how brilliant a film it is .  aside from the fact that it's a milestone in animation in movies ( it's the first film to combine real actors and cartoon characters , have them interact , and make it convincingly real ) and a great entertainment it's also quite an effective comedy/mystery .  while the plot may be somewhat familiar the characters are original , especially baby herman , and watching them together is a lot of fun .  the story begins in hollywood in 1947 .  cartoon star roger rabbit is blowing takes and having trouble keeping his mind on work , so hard-boiled private detective eddie valiant ( bob hoskins ) is called in by studio head r . k .  maroon ( alan tilvern ) to try to help get roger's mind back on work .  maroon thinks that roger's wife , jessica's , possible unfaithfulness to him might be the cause of distraction and tells eddie to get some photos of her in the act before it costs him any more money in reshoots .  valiant takes some photos of jessica playing , `patty cake' with marvin acme ( stubby kaye ) , the owner of toontown ( where all of the cartoon characters live ) and takes them to maroon .  upon seeing them , roger is emotionally destroyed and soon after acme is found dead and roger rabbit is the prime suspect .  the rest of the movie follows valiant and roger as they run around town ( and eventually toontown ) trying to clear roger's good name .  along the way they meet judge doom ( christopher lloyd ) a judge-jury-and executioner type who's out to get roger and has discovered the one and only way to kill a `toon . '  `who framed roger rabbit' won 4 academy awards including a special achievement award for richard williams for animation direction and creation of the cartoon characters ( williams and his teams went through the film frame by frame and hand drew the cartoon characters in ) .  director robert zemekis must be given an equal amount of praise for overseeing the entire production , which included hundreds of animators .  also bob hoskins' performance should be credited .  he , in addition to the rest of the human cast , finds the right note to play in all of the scenes with his cartoon co-stars .  according to the internet movie database , hoskins studied his young daughter to learn how to act with imaginary characters and i guess his hard work paid off .  `who framed roger rabbit' is a rare film .  one that not only presented a great challenge to the filmmakers but one that can be enjoyed by the whole family ( although some very young viewers may be a little scared by judge doom ) .  do yourself a favor and rent it , `p-p-p-p-please . " 
neg@ i'll be the first to admit it .  when you mention the book great expectations , i immediately begin experiencing flashbacks to junior high english class , where i was confronted with a torturously boring book filled with people with such nonsensical names as pip and magwitch .  yes , it's a classic of literature , but it was a rather dry one , shoved down my young throat like a spoonful of bitter medicine .  certainly , the experience wasn't truly that bad , but , to quote ethan hawke in the latest movie adaptation of said book , " i'm not going to tell the story the way it happened . . . i'll  gonna tell it the way i remember it . "  anyway , to return from nostalgia lane , and get back to the present , hollywood , in it's trendy attempt to modernize the classics , now presents an updated film version of great expectations .  instead of pip , this time the central character is named finn ( played as a boy by jeremy kissner , and by ethan hawke as an adult ) .  finn is an orphan being raised by his unfaithful sister maggie , or should that be mrs . joe , ( kim dickens ) , and her boorish fisherman husband , joe ( chris cooper ) .  the setting is the florida coast during the mid-70s .  finn is a blooming artist , and spends his time running around the beach drawing fish ( one of his two favorite subjects ) .  during one of these escapades , he literally stumbles upon an escaped criminal ( robert deniro ) .  borrowing a page from the superhuman max cady , deniro's criminal has a seemingly limitless lung capacity , and favors hiding on the ocean floor .  ok . . . maybe  that's an exaggeration , but he certainly beats any of houdini's records in the opening scenes of the film .  and that's nothing next to the fuel efficiency of finn's motorboat , but i digress .  anyway , finn does the convict a good deed , just to show that he's a really swell guy .  and then the plot moves on .  enter miss havisham . . . or  ms . dinsmoor here ( anne bancroft ) .  abandoned at the altar some 26 years ago , ms . dinsmoor is the epitome of the crazy rich old maid .  with bizarre clothing , eccentric mannerisms and a few pounds of makeup , anne bancroft seriously overacts in this role .  although she ends up nowhere near a believable character , she does add some humor to the film .  joe is hired to help with the gardening at her unkempt manner , but the insane ms . dinsmoor soon hires finn to be a plaything for her niece , estella ( raquel beaudene as a young girl , gwyneth paltrow as an adult ) .  for no apparent reason , other than to provide the main plot of the film , finn is instantly stricken for the estella .  perhaps it's her snooty attitude or her utter disdain for his person , or maybe finn has simply never met a girl before .  in any case , neither as children nor adults , chemistry simply doesn't exist between the two , and yet finn spends the remainder of the film pining for her .  even when , as an adult , finn arrives in new york at the behest of a mysterious benefactor , reacquaints himself with estella , and draws her portrait in the nude , there's nothing .  in fact , there is more sexual tension between helen hunt and greg kinnear's gay artist during a similar scene in as good as it gets .  at this point , the audience has grown as cold and detached as estella's character , and couldn't care less about the two characters .  the bulk of the blame here falls upon gwyneth paltrow .  she fails to imbue estella , a remote character in the book , with even the vaguest traces of humanity .  there's obviously something wrong when , watching the film , you're more interested with how big her nose looks in silhouette than you are about her character .  without a strong estella , finn's obsession seems baseless .  you wish he would just stop whining , let estella marry his rival , walter plane ( an oddly subdued hank azaria ) , and just get on with his life .  in fact , the two relationships that work in the film are purely tangential to the main plot .  finn's relationship with his brother-in-law , joe , is interesting , if a bit stereotypical .  what's more fascinating are his interactions with deniro .  although it's only a bit part , it goes to show how much vitality a strong actor can create .  it is apparent that director alfonso cuarsn put a lot of work in creating the imagery of the film .  some of the shots work , but others are too obviously staged ( for example , both of the water fountain scenes ) to have any impact .  finn's art ( actually the creations of italian painter , francesco clemente ) is used throughout the film , but it mostly fails to have the intended effect .  we never see why finn would generate this style of art , which is simultaneously crude and insightful .  as a result , it ends up as distant as the rest of the film .  modernizing the classics is currently in vogue ( just see william shakespeare's romeo+juliet ) .  simply update the action to a modern setting , and apply plenty of modern rock .  but such adornments do little to perk up great expectations .  as much as i dreaded the novel when i first read it , you'd probably be better off suffering though a reading than watching this romanceless film . 
pos@ in these days of overlong movies ( meet joe black , the thin red line , the mask of zorro ) it is a shame that films like waking ned devine can't be longer than a paltry 90 minutes .  this is just a cute movie , even through its mildly risque subject matter .  old friends jackie ( bannen ) and michael ( kelley ) try to find the lottery winner ( they deduce must live in their dinky town of about 60 ) so that they might kiss up to him and share the winnings .  through process of elimination , they find that it must be lovable old ned devine , who they find sitting in front of his tv , clutching the winning lottery ticket in his cold dead hand .  what results is thuroughly amusing , as jackie tries to convince his wife that not claiming it would be wrong , and that they could really benefit .  after all , old ned won't miss it .  rather than divulge the later twists and turns , i'll stop here merely pointing out that jackie and michael get into all sorts of trouble in their little sleepy irish villiage .  bannen and kelly are a perfect pair .  one slightly stout , the other as thin as a rail .  both getting on in years , they make such a cute pair of old codgers .  waking ned devine may even be seen as a " full monty " for the geriatric set , especially since kelly gets buff-o for one amusing scene .  waking ned devine is by no means perfect , but it is so sincere and touching that it looks so much better than most films .  the performances by everyone in the town are great , particularly the two leads .  there is one twist at the end which i find unnecessary , but it hardly ruins the picture .  writer/director kirk jones should be held up as an example to all those hollywood screenwriters .  scripts as creative and endearing as this should be the norm , not the exception .  perhaps it makes us appreciate this wonderful film even more .  had i held off on my year's best/worst list for another day , waking ned devine ( officially released in late november of 98 ) surely would have graced the short group of the year's finest films .  it is light , but thought provoking and sweet .  i can't think of anyone who shouldn't see ( or wouldn't enjoy ) this film . 
neg@ plot : upon the realization that they are failing all of their classes , two roommates try to find a third roomie who will kill himself , since the school's charter automatically grants top grades to the roommates of any student who succeeds in suicide .  critique : despite this film's interesting premise and dark subject matter , this movie sucks because it is unfunny , boring , and presents us with one of tom everett scott's worst acting performances .  add that to a completely unsuccessful romance element , many lame and corny jokes , a long wait for the setup , and an ending that takes all the blackness out of this " black comedy " ( if you're gonna create a black comedy , don't chicken out in the end-see very bad things ( 8/10 ) for a perfect example ) , and you've got yourself a trite mtv creation worthy of its own subject matter .  i barely laughed at any gags , found the bong element contrived and repetitive , and was horrified not to find any gratuitous nudity tossed anywhere in this movie ( if you're gonna make a bad college comedy , at least slap in some free t&a shots for the kids : ) .  this one's not even worth the rental , fellas .  skip it altogether !  little known facts about this film and its stars : during auditions for that thing you do ! , tom everett scott's first feature film role , director tom hanks was opposed to hiring tom because of the fact that scott could've passed for hanks 15 years ago .  it wasn't until hanks' wife rita wilson saw the audition tape , and decided he was cute , that hanks decided to risk hiring scott .  the actor who played scott cooper in this film , mark-paul gosselaar , is best known for having played the character of zack morris on tv's " saved by the bell " .  his parents are dutch and named hans and paula .  and who would've guessed that this is director alan cohn's first shot at directing a feature film ? 
pos@ the coen brothers are back again , this time with homer's " odyssey " as the backdrop in their tale of three fugitives from a mississippi chain gang who trek across the south to find a secret treasure in " o brother , where art thou ? "  right for the beginning of " o brother " the coens grab your attention with a chain gang of prison inmates breaking rocks along the road in unison to a work song .  the camera flows around the hard toiling men , giving a visually exciting symmetry to the scene that ends with our three heroes - ulysses everett mcgill ( george clooney ) , delmar ( tim blake nelson ) and pete ( john turturro ) - escaping across a cotton field .  it is the beginning of a journey that takes on different meanings and urgencies to each member of the trio .  a strong suite , as always with the coen brothers , is the depth of character of the folks they create in their films .  their characters are goofy and comical , like nicolas cage in " raising arizona " ; or , dramatic , as albert finney and john turturro in " miller's crossing " ; and , even a mix of the two with frances mcdormand in " fargo . "  in all cases , and in " o brother , " too , the characters populating their films are three-dimensional people .  ulysses everett is a handsome , hair-obsessed petty criminal with a silver tongue and not a lot in the brains department .  but , he seems like a genius when compared to the simple , sweet delmar and the maladjusted pete , who follow their self appointed leader to a promised treasure of $1 . 2 million .  their odyssey takes on the mystical proportions of homer's original material as they meet all manner of people along the way , including those dangerous sirens who beckon them onto symbolically rocky shoals and a cyclops who beats them and takes all their money .  there is magic , too , when delmar believes that pete was turned into a horny toad by the sirens .  the story meanders through the different vignettes of the boys' adventures , giving the flick a choppy , episodic feel that disrupts the overall flow .  some of the interludes are an epiphany , though .  the trio becomes a quartet when they pick up guitar-playing tommy johnson ( chris thomas king ) and visit a radio station in the middle of nowhere , run by its blind owner ( stephen root ) .  they become the soggy bottom boys for the sightless radio station man and , without their knowledge , are recorded as they sing the traditional tune , " i am a man of constant sorrow . "  it is a wonderful moment of moviemaking and gives us , in my mind , the best movie song of the year .  contrasting this and other wonderful moments ( the sexy seduction by the sirens comes to mind ) are some pretentious bits that detract from the overall quality of " o brother . "  in particular , near the end , is a scene where ulysses , delmar and pete crash a ku klux klan rally to save tommy from being lynched .  the scene is overblown and flashy and reeks of " the wizard of oz . "  they don't say " lions and tigers and bears , oh my ! "  and there's no dorothy , but it is the land of oz we're seeing here .  the highs and lows of the story flow are tempered by fine acting on several levels .  george clooney is funny , charming , a little dumb and one of the handsomest actors in the business today .  he has the charm of a 30's movie idol and is able to put himself into silly situations with dignity .  ulysses has an ongoing obsession with his hair , risking life and limb to get a particular brand of pomade and a supply of hairnets .  his vanity will come to plague him as it would any mystical hero-wanderer .  while clooney is the name draw for " o brother , " the show stealer is tim blake nelson as delmar .  the heretofore unknown nelson is terrific as the simple convict who , at one point , hears the word of the lord and joins members of a church congregation in their mass baptism .  delmar is saved and dedicates his life to doing good and provides a richness to his simple character that makes him shine .  the taciturn pete , as played by longtime coen collaborator turturro , is the sullen member of the trio and gives them the necessary angst .  all together , the tuneful triumvirate is a mix of the three stooges and the three musketeers as they prove to be buffoons , albeit brave ones .  the colorful supporting cast is rampant with homerian characters to meet and get to know along the way of the boys' odyssey .  charles durning appears as incumbent governor pappy o'daniel , who keeps crossing paths with them in his bid for re-election .  john goodman is wicked as the one-eyed bible salesman and con artist , big dan teague .  michael badalucco is manic and outrageous as outlaw and bank robber extraordinary , george " babyface " nelson .  stephen root is amusing as the blind dj , rep'ing one of the many references to the sightless that abound in the film in mystical ways .  holly hunter is wasted in the small role as ulysses' estranged wife , penny ( and the real reason for this adventure , not secret treasure ) .  techs are , as expected in a coen brothers venture , first class .  cinematographer roger deakins , who has worked on five previous coen films , captures the sultry atmosphere of the south .  the photography complements the lush period production and costume provided by dennis gassner and mary zophres , respectively .  once again , roderick jaynes - the alter ego of ethan and joel coen - is on board as editor .  the high points outweigh the low through most of " o brother , where art thou ? "  with particular praise for the wonderful selection of period and traditional music .  i give it a b . 
neg@ contrary to popular belief , not every single foregin film released to an american market is a masterpiece .  some of them aren't even good .  some examples of this principle are the aboslutely dreadful " un indien dans la ville " ( presented as " little indian , big city , " and remade into that crap tim allen flick , " jungle2jungle " ) , and this .  what could have been a clever little sex comedy turns into one mess of a french flick .   " french twist " ( the " cool " american title , not the real one , which was " gazon maudit , " literally meaning " twisted ground , " or something like that ) deals with a married couple with kids , and the intrusion of a stranger who kinda screws things up for them .  loli and alain chabat ( victoria abril and alain chabat ) are not exactly happily married .  always on business trips , alain chabat more than once cheats on her , and she eventually finds out .  and one day , she meets a butch mechanic , marijo ( the co-writer/director josiane balasko ) , and they two kinda hit it off .  so she decides she will get back at alain chabat by doing the obvious : sleeping with marijo .  but she soons starts to not only fall in love with marijo , but she's also realizes she's still in love with alain chabat .  so , of course , she does the obvious from that : she decides to keep them both .  she'll be ( and sleep ) with each of them for 3 days each , then on sunday , she'll rest by herself .  after all , she needs it if she's gonna have more sex than sylvia kristel .  the film goes on for over an hour and a half , through stupidity after stupidity , moronic twist after moronic twist , and soon there's the little ironic ( ! ! ! )  ending .  i know it's a completely different culture , and i'm quite familiar with the french and their cinema , but this is just bad .  none of the characters are more intelligent than peter stormare in " fargo " ( a movie where stupid characters were backed up to make a point ) , and any action they do is pretty much just to get a hopeful chuckle from the audience .  what's shocking is this was not only one of france's biggest hits , but it was nominated for a lot of cesars ( french equivalent of oscars ) .  the writing and directing is really the big problem with it .  josiane balasko does a good acting job with her role , but her little sex comedy isn't very humerous , entertaining , or even deep at all .  even woody allen's not-very-good " a midsummer night's sex comedy " is intelligent , well-written , and possesses some depth .  this is shallow , unfunny , and pretty annoying to watch .  the film moves at the pace of a snail , and is damn-near painful to watch .  thank god for the fast forward button .  the acting , however , isn't bad at all .  the actors do the best they can with the bad material , and victoria abril is pretty likable despite the script ( and the fact that she's stupid enough to try to divide herself over two people when she has kids ) .  and alain chabat has some funny moments as the neurotic husband .  but " french twist " is just pretty lame .  it's not overly horrible , and has a couple very , very , very brief moments .  but it's just a really crap film , and an example of an ill-advised distribution of a foreign film . 
pos@ well i'll be damned , what a most excellent surprise .  not to be confused with the campy and far inferior 1988 remake starring ex-porn star traci lords , this more recent attempt at remaking the 1950's drive-in schlockfest not of this earth is a real gem and was quite possibly the best sci-fi flick of 1995 .  once again , b-movie king roger corman is behind this effort ( he directed the original ) but this time he appears only in the role of executive producer .  the rest of the crew and cast are relative unknowns .  it seems criminal that the film was released direct to video in most countries , because it's an absolute must-see for sci-fi fans and a treat for anyone who enjoys decently acted and written thrillers with a kooky bent .  the plot in brief .  paul johnson ( michael york ) is an alien posing as an eccentric millionaire who , though needing to kill people to live , is visiting earth for far from selfish reasons .  his race is dying of a mysterious blood disease and he desperately is trying to find a cure , the key of which lies in the blood of humans .  he visits and soon puts under his spell the respected blood physician dr . rochelle , whom he hypnotises into doing secret research on his behalf .  he also has the doctor convince smart and sexy nurse amanda ( elizabeth barondes ) to move in with johnson as his private nurse so as to give him the blood transfusions which he constantly requires .  but before long , amanda and johnson's sleazy chauffeur release that johnson is a lot more than just eccentric .  i must admit , my first glimpse of the video cover for not of this earth was not encouraging .  british actor michael york has appeared in some real stinkers in past few decades , a far cry from the quality fare of his younger days such as caberat ( 1972 ) .  but his performance here as an alien in human disguise is nothing short of outstanding .  the weird twitches and bizarre modes of speech , the dapper clothes and cool spectacles , the unexpected pathos which he invests in his character .  york is by turns hilarious , menacing and tragic .  this is a tour-de-force and quite simply the best performance i've seen from him .  and while obviously made on a modest budget , the film boasts enormous strengths .  the casting is spot on , the acting is terrific and the script is intelligent , witty and consistently engaging , cleverly updating the original .  the balance of horror and humour is just about perfect , a marked contrast to the earlier remake from 1988 .  the film doesn't drag for a second of its 90 minute running time thanks to tight editing and the sure hand of little-known director terrance h . winkless .  and it doesn't matter one bit that the special effects are cheesy - this is schlock after all , even if it is high class schlock .  in fact my only criticism of the film is that things get a tad weak towards the end .  tighter direction could have given the climax more urgency and a few of the characters act rather illogically given their life-threatening situation .  but these are minor complaints .  just see it .  not of this earth is one of the biggest sci-fi surprises in years .  and michael york : in one cool swoop you've made yourself a b-movie legend , dude . 
neg@ arnold schwarzenegger has been an icon for action enthusiasts , since the late 80's , but lately his films have been very sloppy and the one-liners are getting worse .  it's hard seeing arnold as mr . freeze in batman and robin , especially when he says tons of ice jokes , but hey he got 15 million , what's it matter to him ?  once again arnold has signed to do another expensive blockbuster , that can't compare with the likes of the terminator series , true lies and even eraser .  in this so called dark thriller , the devil ( gabriel byrne ) has come upon earth , to impregnate a woman ( robin tunney ) which happens every 1000 years , and basically destroy the world , but apparently god has chosen one man , and that one man is jericho cane ( arnold himself ) .  with the help of a trusty sidekick ( kevin pollack ) , they will stop at nothing to let the devil take over the world !  parts of this are actually so absurd , that they would fit right in with dogma .  yes , the film is that weak , but it's better than the other blockbuster right now ( sleepy hollow ) , but it makes the world is not enough look like a 4 star film .  anyway , this definitely doesn't seem like an arnold movie .  it just wasn't the type of film you can see him doing .  sure he gave us a few chuckles with his well known one-liners , but he seemed confused as to where his character and the film was going .  it's understandable , especially when the ending had to be changed according to some sources .  aside form that , he still walked through it , much like he has in the past few films .  i'm sorry to say this arnold but maybe these are the end of your action days .  speaking of action , where was it in this film ?  there was hardly any explosions or fights .  the devil made a few places explode , but arnold wasn't kicking some devil butt .  the ending was changed to make it more spiritual , which undoubtedly ruined the film .  i was at least hoping for a cool ending if nothing else occurred , but once again i was let down .  i also don't know why the film took so long and cost so much .  there was really no super affects at all , unless you consider an invisible devil , who was in it for 5 minutes tops , worth the overpriced budget .  the budget should have gone into a better script , where at least audiences could be somewhat entertained instead of facing boredom .  it's pitiful to see how scripts like these get bought and made into a movie .  do they even read these things anymore ?  it sure doesn't seem like it .  thankfully gabriel's performance gave some light to this poor film .  when he walks down the street searching for robin tunney , you can't help but feel that he looked like a devil .  the guy is creepy looking anyway !  when it's all over , you're just glad it's the end of the movie .  don't bother to see this , if you're expecting a solid action flick , because it's neither solid nor does it have action .  it's just another movie that we are suckered in to seeing , due to a strategic marketing campaign .  save your money and see the world is not enough for an entertaining experience . 
pos@ it was a crazy time in france , what with the french revolution right around the corner .  king louis xv would soon die , and his son would become king louis xvi .  such is the setting for beaumarchais : the scoundrel about the controversial playwright , spy and playboy pierre-augustin caron de beaumarchais .  beaumarchais was the author of the plays , " the barber of seville " and " the marriage of figaro . "  today people think of them as quaint and harmless operas , but , back in 1773 when the movie takes place , they were so scandalous that beaumarchais was thrown into prison more than once .  the movie beaumarchais : the scoundrel takes a light-hearted approach to its subject , resulting in an inviting motion picture .  one of france's most expensive productions ever , the movie was a huge hit when it opened there last year .  now in theatrical release in the united states , it eschews the seriousness of most art house films with a romping good story .  the secret of the film's success , other than the lavishness of sylvie de segonzac's costumes , has to be the performance by fabrice luchini as beaumarchais .  with his glistening eyes and his infectious smile , he mesmerizes the camera and the audience .  his wry little lips seem always to hint at some unspoken deviousness he is planning .  in a land where court intrigue determines one's destiny , constant scheming was a way of life for the aristocracy .  as our story starts , we learn that beaumarchais has bought himself a judgeship .  into his court comes a member of the nobility demanding an immediate sword fight .  beaumarchais , who has been having an affair with the man's wife , makes him wait until the current case on the docket is decided .  that over with , the fight is on .  with luchini's charisma , it is hard to root for anyone other than him .  audiences may remember him from the marvelous colonel chabert , in which he played the attorney .  although he does not have half of the good looks of his assistant gudin , played by manuel blanc , he dazzles the women and the viewers with his grace and style .  michael epp's warm and intimate cinematography provides a nice accompaniment to jean-marc kerdelhue's lush but realistic looking sets .  jean-claude petit's music , especially the hauntingly lovely flute solos , make for an enchanting time at the movies .  director jean-claude brisville , who wrote the script along with edouard molinaro , fleshed out a play by sacha guitry which , according to the press notes , was just a series of historic vignettes .  the disorganization of the play still comes through at some points in the movie , but the actors smooth it over with their good-hearted style .  typical of the scenes that come out of nowhere is the one in which a rotund benjamin franklin appears in a large pot of hot water , taking his bath .  one episode has beaumarchais working with a renegade spy who may or may not be a man .  another has beaumarchais using his personal fortune to aid the american revolution .  all of this may sound like a dull historical drama , but it is anything but .  the story plays more like theater of the absurd than a movie based on historical facts .  the radiantly lovely sandrine kiberlain plays marie-therese , the real love of beaumarchais's life .  but he is so likable that members of the audience may want to compete with her for him .  still , with his beguiling smile , one can never quite be sure if you should trust him .  the movie , on the other hand , can be trusted to deliver a high old time .  beaumarchais : the scoundrel runs 1 : 41 .  it is in french with english subtitles .  the film is not rated but would be an r for some nudity and sex , and should be fine for most teenagers . 
neg@ i looked at the " internet movie database " 's awards section for this film , and found that this was nominated for a golden globe for " best picture ( drama ) . "  anyone who's seen this film can back me up on this : this is the worst of the " great " disaster films , and that's not really saying a lot for this film .   " earthquake " is basically notable because it originally included some theatre thing where the theatre shook when the big earthquake occured .  on video , it's a bland and slow-moving film which gives us a bunch of different characters ( the disaster film requisite ) , then brings them together in the struggle against the big disaster .  while this worked in , say , " the towering inferno , " it doesn't here for one single reason : we don't care about any of the characters .  the film gives us charlton heston ( in one of many crap 70s films he made , including " skyjacked " and that classic , " soylent green " ) as a rich man married to ava gardner , who is having a little affair with a young single mom ( genieveve bujold ) ; a renegade police officer on suspension ( george kennedy , in his least humored performance ) ; in the second weirdest subplot , a motorcycle stuntman ( richard roundtree , right after his " shaft " thing ) whose big stunt is he goes on a little track that goes upside down ( yea , snore ) ; and the weirdest subplot : a military man/bag boy at a grocery store who has a little thing for buxom victoria principal , and eventually gets vengeance on those guys who made fun of his hair ( ! ! ! ) .  in smaller subplots , there's a pointless bit about people who are flying over l . a . ( the city in the film , by the way ) , one who's playing cards and married to a boring non-acting husband ( you think this one can go nowhere ?  guess again . he gets interested in the final frames ) ; there's genieveve bujold's moron son , who has a little adventure with wires ; and for some much-needed comedy , there's walter matthau ( billed as walter mutha . . . .  - the only laugh in the film ) , as a wild drunkard , who's big moment is a dance he does at a critical time .  as for the actual " earthquake , " it's rather a let-down .  there's a full hour of character-setups , none of which is interesting , then about 10 minutes of shaking , crumbling , and a bit where a house almost falls on bujold ( narrowly missing ) .  this film needed that whole theatre-shaking : they needed to wake everybody up because they were so bored .  there's little suspense following the quake , although this film tries for it .  there's an adventure in a crumbling high-rise office building , the wires with the kid , and the movement of people who are all injured .  but none of these are all-too suspenseful .  the finale with the heston/gardner/bujold love triangle is ended in a basic flip-of-the-coin bit , which brings out a big let-down .  and there's no real finale .  even " volcano " ended nicely , and that movie really sucked .  not only is it hokey , but you don't care about any character .  who cares if heston dies ?  who cares if he choses bujold or gardner ( although i would have chosen gardner , mainly on the basis that she can actually act ) ?  who cares if richard roundtree makes money on his stupid " stunt ? "  who cares if that idiot kid falls to his death on some wires ?  and who cares about that whole plane spiel ?  if anything , " earthquake " is worth a viewing for the same reason " glen or glenda ? "  is .  i mean , i laughed at this more than i did at " bio dome . "  but that's another story ( and review ) .  in short , " earthquake " gives disaster pics a bad name . 
pos@ in may of 1977 , just 2 years after steven spielberg's success with jaws and 3 years after francis coppolas' the godfather , a risky , ambitious young director named george lucas went for the same unpredictable box office success .  little did he know that star wars would become the greatest science fiction epic in the history of film .  in january of this year , lucas re-released star wars on its 20th anniversary .  in this new , remastered version , the added effects , which range from leathery desert beasts inserted into already existing shots to an awkward new scene in which hans solo bargains his way out of a jam with a computer-generated jabba the hutt , don't do much but call attention to themselves .  other than these , the film is exactly the same .  why pay to see it in the theaters , you might ask ?  simply because when this movie was released , most of us were a few years short of being born .  we should all get up and go to the movies for the experience , especially if you haven't seen it .  the plot is basic but in the same way , complex .  it has many themes , but the one rotates around luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) and his quest to become a jedi knight .  his mission begins when a droid named r2-d2 plays back a secret message recorded by the beautiful princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , which tells him to contact the mysterious obi-wan kanoby ( alec guiness ) .  he and kanoby then , joined by two inter-galactic renegades , hans solo ( harrison ford ) and chewbacca , and skywalker's two droids d2 and c3po ( the voice of anthony edwards ) , wage war upon the corrupt empire , commanded by an evil general ( peter cushing ) and the traitorous darth vader ( the voice of james earl jones ) .  skywalker defeats the evil empire by rising out of himself to embrace something larger : the force .  the film is obviously quite star-studded .  but how was lucas to know that ford would become one of the most sought after men in hollywood and jones' voice would appear so many more times in the future ?  it just happened to work out for him .  the magic of star wars lies in the way that skywalker's triumph is symbolized by the audience's sense of becoming something larger than life itself-a universe of fans , young and old , recreating a movie atmosphere that will impress generations forever .   , 
neg@ the previews for the movie are pretty good .  they show a little plot , all the characters , and the emotional highlights , all spliced together to give a general impression of the script .  unfortunately , the full movie adds nothing but 115 minutes .  the residents of mystery love hockey .  mystery and hockey go together like texas and high school football .  the townsfolk love hockey so much that they even acquit a player who's guilty of shooting another man ( yes , that's one of the movie's jokes . )  every saturday , the best players pair off for a game , and the whole town comes to watch .  the town's prodigal son charlie ( hank azaria ) wrote an article on the weekly game for sports illustrated .  mystery's national fame has the town abuzz .  a week later , charlie actually shows up in person , and he brings with him an offer from the nhl .  the new york rangers will come to mystery to play the locals .  the mysterians see this as both good and bad .  on the one hand , they'd love to have the fame and the money of such an exhibition .  on the other hand , they don't want to turn up as the butt of leno and letterman jokes .  the movie follows a handful of lives that are affected by the proposition .  biebe ( russell crowe ) has just been retired from the team and is asked to coach the boys , including his new replacement .  he's already resentful , and to top it off charlie has been making eyes at his wife .  crowe is not given a lot of room to act in this film , so he's just kind of stuck with constantly brooding .  charlie , meanwhile , is resentful of having born in a town where hockey is the only measure of a man's worth .  his " gift " of the feature story , and of the new york rangers , was his way of compensating for not being a better skater .  he hoped it would earn him some respect and merit , but the townspeople find reasons to continue disliking him .  burt reynolds could have been interesting as walter , the judge whose courtroom was befouled by a moronic jury of hockey fans .  walter actually has some experience with collegiate hockey , but he actively tries to put it behind him .  he wants his son to take the game more seriously , but he wants his community to just get over it .  reynolds could have been good , but sloppy writing and/or editing keep walter in the corner , and so reynolds never really gets to pull his performance all together .  one character actually was interesting .  biebe's wife ( mary mccormack ) , like the judge , understood that there was more to life than hockey .  but unlike him she has come to accept the skewed view of the community .  she chose the town and her husband with her eyes wide open .  her unique insight is verbalized once , and it lasts only a scene before it is gone , but her performance carries the hint of some deeper wisdom .  mysterty , alaska follows a handful of other characters , but none are well developed or worth mentioning .  the biggest problem with this movie is that there is no real heart to the story , no underlying thing that the movie is really about .  instead , roach and screenwriters david e . kelley and sean o'byrne try to cram the entire human condition into this sports comedy .  they try to make you laugh and cry , to feel outrage and pride .  they present the framing and cadence for jokes , but there's nothing truly funny .  they show appropriately staged scenes of sadness , but they give you nothing to be really sad about .  as columnist molly ivins would say , it's all hat , no cattle .  the perfect opportunity arises for roach to say what this movie is really about .  there is a funeral scene , played with appropriate gravity and somber music .  it is a chance for the characters to reflect on their lives and decide what's truly important .  russell crowe steps forward to speak , about to spell out the movie's metaphor for us .  he says that what really matters in life is " community . . . . "  then adds " and hockey . "  i guess these mysterians really are as shallow as they appear .  only mildly bad , mystery , alaska probably deserves 2 stars .  i even laughed out loud , genuine laughs in places .  but i docked it an extra half star when mike myers , a friend of roach , turned up in a role that didn't suit him .  myers is a comic character actor .  he puts on masks , becomes an outrageous caricature , and is funny .  he's great as austin powers , dr . evil , or any of his scottish characters .  nobody else in mysterty , alaska is a comic caricature .  all the other people have the feel of dramatic characters in semi-serious roles .  for roach to bring in myers for a few cheap laughs shows incredible contempt toward the rest of his cast , toward his audience , and indeed toward the film itself .  it's an acknowledgment by the director that the film is not worth taking seriously . 
pos@ virtual reality is a topic that has almost defined its own genre .  since 'dark city' ( 1998 ) , films about alternative universes and parallel worlds have been coming one after another .  the most popular and original of them all has been the matrix .  all the films released after it , have been less successful .  david cronenberg's existenz , released only a couple of months after the matrix , was accepted and even appreciated ( by some ) , but the hype was gone .  and when 'the thirteenth floor' aired this fall , it was completely overseen and ignored .  i admit that this issue has become something between tiring and annoying , feeling like eating the same meal over and over again .  it was therefore i was less than excited , when i went out to see to 'the thirteenth floor' .  however , i was positively surprised by josef rusnak's latest picture .  matrix was an entertaining thrill ride through dreams and reality , combining the best of hollywood's action and effects with an intelligent story .  existenz was a violent , gory and unsettling journey through reality and virtual reality , ending in blood and madness .  'the thirteenth floor' is somewhere in between .  instead of going after the crowds - the action audience ( like the matrix ) , or aiming at the horror fans ( like existenz ) , 'the thirteenth floor' presents a more intelligent plot , witch will provide a less entertaining and more serious experience , that the true science fiction lovers will find rewarding .  in a near future . . . on  the thirteenth floor of a classified building , a genius scientist , hannon fuller , has created a simulated world , his personal dreamworld , where every inhabitant is a complex , selflearning program that only believes it is real .  right after the first testing of this world , fuller ( ) is found murdered .  douglas hall ( ) , his closest friend and business partner , immediately becomes the prime suspect and must enter through the thirteenth floor in search of the truth .  a beautiful woman ( gretchen mol ) who suddenly appears on the scene may hold the key to the mystery , which might unravel the horrifying truth about his own existence .  the first " download into simulation " is impressive .  it is the creator's first visit to his world , his creation .  in order to enter this virtual universe , you have to take over someone's identity , become another person .  this is called conciseness transfer , and this is part of the tragedy in the film : people " wake up " in unknown places and strange things start happen .  they start to doubt in their own sanity .  these innocent people pay for the mistakes of their " users " and creators with their sanity and their lives .  it is a frightening reality ; the fact that all the people in the simulation ( the program links ) are living out their lives , oblivious , not knowing that they are puppets in someone's fantasy .  with an appealing ( " blade runner " - type ) of detective story , this film presents the beauty and possibilities of virtual reality and the lurking danger that is always present .  our modern world is metal and glass -- cold , unfriendly , impersonal .  the thirties are different -- colorful , beautiful , elegant , virile .  this contrast demonstrates a wish for change .  virtual reality is here portrayed as a magical , enchanting power that seduces you into its endless possibilities .  to some it is just a journey to their personal paradise , to some a personal playground -- a life without any consequences .  for others - a way to start over and " correct " their mistakes , by living in an illusion of their past .  virtual reality is a wizard that transforms your hopes , dreams and fantasies to life .  at least that's how it is all beginning .  but when you're waking up from your dream , the real world seems worthless and unreal and all you can think off is returning to your personal paradise .  this , almost narcotic effect , soon turns into confusion and ultimately madness .  some important and interesting philosophical questions are raised -- what is real ?  what is thought ?  who are we ?  if these were answered , this film would be the greatest science fiction ever made .  they are off course not answered , but posed in an intelligent manner .  the visual aspect of the film is one of the key elements , since it portrays the contrast between these computer-simulated universes .  kirk m . petrucelli has done a marvelous job with the recreation of the thirties with its glamour , grace and color ; and setting this world in opposition to our own -- an almost caricatured recreation of the nineties .  there are some honest and decent performances by an almost unknown cast and harald klose's moody musical score that is at in right place at the right time .  a rather unusual thing about'the thirteenth floor' is the almost complete lack of special effects .  there are no cgi animated creatures , no bullets in slow motion .  this is a more philosophical approach , reminding about the european way of filmmaking .  this is off course a major disappointment to the audience that is used to endless gunfights and mutated amphibians , but the more serious science fiction buffs and 'dark city'-fans will be pleased .  this film is interesting and inspiring .  it has everything existenz doesn't , but it lacks the immediacy and intensity of the matrix .  and then there is a happy end which , like in 'dark city' , completely alienates it from the rest of the story and context .  the plot itself is not as original as the filmmakers want us to think , since they have virtually sucked out all information from the best science fiction classics , including blade runner and 'dark city' .  with this in mind , 'the thirteenth floor' doesn't make an oscar candidate or a film that will be remembered a year from now , yet this is a beautiful , elegant and intelligent take on virtual reality . 
neg@ vikings v . bears ?  no , this isn't the lineup for monday night football .  rather , these are the two opposing forces that will battle to the death in " the 13th warrior , " a film that is as dramatically flat as it is gratuitously gory .  based on michael crichton's book , eaters of the dead , this viking saga tries to evoke the mysticism of fabled norsemen and the glorious battles that they fought .  their strength and honor would eventually etch their place in history among the greatest warriors that ever picked up a sword .  luckily for the vikings , however , their warring abilities were not as clumsy as this film .  antonio bandaras is ahmed , a travelling ambassador .  accompanied by his friend ( omar shariff in a cameo ) , they eventually come across a small viking village .  we see that the vikings are an extremely proud group whose greatest strength is their fortitude .  they laugh heartily , revel in their arrogance , and sing songs of battles won .  but their festivities are about to be halted when a messenger boy arrives to tell the village leader that a great evil is threatening their land .  help is needed quickly .  an elderly , fortune-telling witch arrives .  after a brief incantation , she proclaims that 12 warriors and one more " not of norse blood " are needed to ensure victory .  personally , i always wonder why people believe these oracles when they look so haggardly and on the brink of insanity .  nonetheless , 12 men eagerly accept their place while ahmed becomes the pivotal 13th .  the group then sets out to do the greatest battle of their lives .  of course during their ride , ahmed becomes the target of fun for the other 12 burly viking warriors .  but he ably shows that it's not the size of the dog in the fight but rather the size of the fight in the dog .  he is able to overcome the proud arrogance of the vikings , but will his skills ( and that of the group ) be enough to defeat whatever evil is menacing the countryside ?  it does not look promising .  these creatures , resembling bears , are strong and have high morale .  they are fearless and display a desire for decapitating the heads of their enemies .  they attack by the hundreds and the next strike will come soon .  the warriors prepare their defenses and pray to their gods .  they are ready to sacrifice their lives .   " this is a good way to die , " says one of the fallen warriors .  despite the larger-than-life battle sequences , i was unmoved by the entire experience .  at many points , i was even confused .  for example , somewhere in the middle of the film , a sub-plot creeps up involving the prince of the threatened land .  he seems to have an agenda to elevate himself to greater power during this crisis .  however , the sub-plot never fully materializes , and we are left scratching our heads as to the purpose of its inclusion .  there are other questions that i had , but the real problem was that the story ( little of it that there was ) offered no characters to love or hate .  the leader of the viking warriors had the most charisma .  however , banderas's role is completely underwritten and it is unclear why being the 13th warrior makes him so special .  an entire rewrite of the ahmed character is in order .  also , much of the action takes place during torrential downpours or at night , which made battles very difficult to follow .  i would have preferred more time looking at the viking culture and how their beliefs shaped their decision to do battle against the enemy .  as it stands , the film manages more confusion than intensity .  it would make thor cry . 
pos@ perhaps the most dramatic changes in the motion picture industry in this decade have to do with special effects .  there is no question that action-adventure and science-fiction/action movies are now judged by the character of their light and noise .  whereas classic adventure pics of the last twenty years , such as raiders of the lost ark , were made in grand traditional fashion ; contemporary films like jurassic park are multimillion-dollar creations of computer technology .  the latest in this visually awesome series of movies , the wachowski brothers' the matrix , is a testament to the skilled use of special effects and its ability to enhance a movie's story .  unlike many sci-fi movies which promote themselves as effects-heavy blockbusters but fail to deliver on that promise , the matrix is a carefully constructed special effects event .  it runs 135 minutes in length and employs a countless number of computerized tricks which range from gimmick to grandiose , and the quality of the effects remains constant throughout the film's length .  contrary to popular trend , the matrix commits itself to being a spectacle of light and sound .  in this regard , the movie is something like a card sharp .  with its flashy mass stripped away , the matrix would be quite shallow and untalented .  the script is characteristically weak , and the dialogue suffers in lieu of a far more innovative visual approach .  but , like the card sharp , the matrix wows its audience to such a high degree that actual content is irrelevent .  the viewers don't care about what the matrix has to say as long as the next special effects sequence is right around the corner .  and right around the corner they usually are , for the script tells a fast-paced , albeit frequently revisited story .  as the movie explains , the world as we know it is nothing but an elaborate computer program constructed by an artificial intelligence for the purpose of placating mankind .  billions of human beings lie in this dormant state while the intelligence -- the matrix -- " farms " our life energy .  only a select group of individuals knows of the " real " world , and a particularly ingenious squad of these rebels is led by ultra-cool morpheus ( laurence fishburne ) .  morpheus and his crew recruit a computer expert named neo ( keanu reeves ) , believing he is a prophesied individual who will help them overthrow the matrix and return peace to earth .  the cast plays out this story in stylish fashion .  the set design is very dynamic , running the gambit between cramped and dreary to bright and airy .  the costumes , as well as the actors who wear them , add to the roles .  for instance , the manifested antagonists in the movie , a group of " agents " created by the matrix in its computer program , all dress in matching secret servicewear ; the rebel fighters , on the other hand , dress in rich hues of leather .  the casting cannot be criticized , for the typically stoic reeves isn't required to say much and laurence fishburne gets plenty of time to be so damn cool .  supports in carrie-anne moss , joe pantoliano , and hugo weaving are all effectual .  one of the best comparisons to thw matrix is last year's science fiction masterpiece dark city , particularly if one ponders how this same premise would've worked from a different approach .  the alex proyas film was far more dark and introspective , requiring a bit of thought before themes became clear ; here , the wachowski brothers have managed to construct a thrill-ride motion picture with little abandon and much noise .  the better picture between the two depends on the viewer , but the key to the success of the matrix is that the noise did not get in the way of the fun . 
neg@ attention moviegoers : you are about to enter a meaning-free zone .  should the sound system malfunction during your viewing of 200 cigarettes , do not panic .  the film will work just as well as a silent movie .  chronicling the meaningless lives of vain , yuppie types , the movie covers the same ground as the wilt stillman films ( last days of disco , barcelona and metropolitan ) but without any of his acerbic wit and the inviting style of his writing .  first-time writer shana larsen makes the mistake of creating a couple of dozen characters and not giving any of them any depth .  there isn't one of these characters worth caring about .  the movie features such a cornucopia of hot young stars that it looks like a celluloid version of " people magazine . "  among others , the movie features : ben affleck , casey affleck , david chappelle , janeane garofalo , gaby hoffmann , catherine kellner , courtney love , jay mohr , martha plimpton , christina ricci and paul rudd .  and unlike people magazine , the people speak , not that they have anything interesting to say .  it's new year's eve in 1981 , and monica ( martha plimpton ) is preparing her big party .  structured as a series of relatively unrelated stories about her guests on the way to the party , director risa bramon garcia flits back and forth among her stars .  monica's apartment is in " noho , " an area that one of the guests describes as " so cool , all of the poor people live there . "  typical of the shallow couples in the movie are kevin ( paul rudd ) and his friend and would-be sexual partner lucy ( courtney love ) .  they argue about whether lucy is a slut or not since she sleeps with everyone , except him , of course .  she dares him to go immediately to a bathroom stall and have sex with her , which turns out to be neither erotic , funny or successful -- rather like the rest of the story .  the movie gets its title from the carton of cigarettes that lucy gives kevin for his new year's eve birthday .   " cigarettes are a shield against emotional interaction with other people , " kevin later tells lucy in a snippet of dialog that sounds profound only outside the context of the movie .  another character , played by jay mohr , has a problem with his sexual triumphs .  every woman he beds falls deeply in love with him by the next morning .  when his latest conquest tells him of her affection for him , his response is " i like a lot of people . "  as the movie finally draws to a close , the characters awaken from their post-party game of musical beds .  some have passed out early from alcohol abuse and remember little , while others actually have some clue as to what happened .  the movie itself is so forgettable that by the time you reach your car in the parking lot , all trace of the film will have vanished from your mind , which is probably the best thing that can be said about the movie .  200 cigarettes runs 1 : 40 .  it is rated r for profanity , sex and one dope smoking scene and would be acceptable for older teenagers . 
pos@ titanic is , without a doubt , the best movie i've seen all year .  and believe me , i'm not an easy critic to impress : the english patient was too long , men in black was over-hyped , and several of the " big summer releases " were dead in the water .  thank god this film got delayed until december .  it's my christmas present .  titanic is in the tradition of the old hollywood epics of years-gone-by , and it is truly a stunning film .  while watching this picture you are completely mesmerized , never taking your eyes off the screen , nor checking your watch to see how much longer it's gonna last , despite its 3 hour plus running time .  as a friend of mine , who's a true titanic-buff , said " if someone doesn't like this film , it's because they didn't want to . "  truer words are hard to come by .  of course , it doesn't hurt that this film comes from one of my favorite directors , james cameron , who is unarguably the greatest action director of all time .  if you wish to argue that point with me , look at his list of credits : the terminator , aliens , the abyss , terminator 2 , true lies , etc . still care to disagree ?  not only has cameron helmed the directorial duties of this film , he also wrote , produced , and edited it .  and to show his true faith for the project , he renenged all directing fees and percentage points to ease the budget costs .  it's obvious he truly loves titanic .  the film opens with footage , both real and fake , of an underwater excursion by special submarines to the bottom of the atlantic , where a team of explorers lead by bill paxton are searcing for a diamond called the " heart of the ocean " , which , according to bill paxton's character , would be worth more than the hope diamond today .  their search turns up , dissapointly , no diamond , but instead a drawing of a young woman wearing the diamond .  this picture is broadcast on cnn and is seen by a 101 year old woman named rose , who claims to be the girl in the picture .  she is flown out to sea to meet bill paxton and to tell them about the diamond .  almost all of the rest of the movie is her narration of the past .  rose's narration shows us how she was an unhappy young girl , engaged to a rich man named cal hockley ( billy zane ) that she didn't want to marry .  her mother is pushy and obnoxious , and cal hockley is arrogant .  they are boarding the titanic , which is sailing to america , and this is where she is to marry cal .  meanwhile , a young man named jack dawson ( leonardo dicaprio ) and his italian friend ( danny nucci ) win two 3rd class tickets aboard the titanic in a poker game .  they are overjoyed , and rush aboard just as the boat is leaving .  for them , this is their ticket to america , to a better life .  for rose , she is sailing to her doom .  the first hour and a half or so of titanic tells the story of how rose dewitt ( kate winslet ) and jack dawson fall in love .  it's the classic wrong-side-of-the-tracks story , and does sometimes resort to a few cliches .  but as i said above , the love portion isn't sappy and doesn't " weigh the film down " , as some critics have said .  it's sweet , and it didn't make me restless at all , despite the fact that i usually hate love stories .  of course , it might help that cameron introduces some pretty interesting characters to help keep our eyes glued to the screen .  most of these people actually were passengers on the titanic back in 1912 , including the enigmatic molly brown ( played by the talented kathy bates ) , the captain of titanic ( bernard hill ) , and so on .  all of these characters add an extra depth to the film , and make it that easier to watch .  of course , things really start to get going after the hour and a half mark , where the titanic strikes the iceberg and begins a slow sink to the bottom .  the sinking is depicted realisticly , and the effects are truly amazing .  it is not told in a heroic fashion sense either , as people are portrayed as panicking , pushing others aside to get on the limited lifeboats , and drowning and dying horrible deaths .  the best part of the movie , in my opinion , comes at the very end , when we flash back to the future .  the crew , who at first had been skeptical of rose's story , now are totally aborbed by her .  rose goes out onto the ship's ledge , and we then learn a secret about her that catches us off guard .  we then see a dream of rose's , in which she returns to the titanic and is dancing with jack dawson .  most people i talked with after the movie saw this as only a dream .  however , i think it symbolized more ; i think it meant that rose had died , and is going to a sort of heaven , which would be the happiest part of her life : her and her one true love , jack .  if anyone has seen the movie and would like to voice an opinion about this , e-mail me at venom8!hotmail . com . 
neg@ the rich legacy of cinema has left us with certain indelible images .  the tinkling christmas tree bell in " it's a wonderful life . "  bogie's speech at the airport in " casablanca . "  little elliott's flying bicycle , silhouetted by the moon in " e . t . "  and now , " starship troopers " director paul verhoeven adds one more image that will live in our memories forever : doogie houser doing a vulcan mind meld with a giant slug .   " starship troopers , " loosely based on the robert heinlein novel , is the story of an interstellar war between humans and giant insects .  in the hands of verhoeven , the mammoth sci-fi battle flick is one of the most astonishingly bad films ever made , a monument to inept filmmaking on a colossal scale .  to put it simply , it's a bug bomb .  in " robocop " and " total recall , " verhoeven displayed a gift for creating an entertaining mix of violence , special effects and social satire , and " starship troopers " starts off in similar fashion , with a tongue-in-cheek futuristic military recruitment ad that shows promise .  things go downhill fast , though , as we meet our heroes , a group of buenos aires teens preparing to graduate from high school .  inexplicably , johnny rico , carmen ibenez , dizzy flores and xander barcalow are played by square-jawed anglo kids who look like they just stepped out of a mountain dew commercial .  it's a veritable " alpha centuri 90210 " as we watch the love-smitten teens squabble in the name of love .  michael ironside plays their teacher , who waves around a cheesy fake severed arm while lecturing about civic responsibilities .  eventually , the kids join the military , with dreams of glory in their addled little minds .  one of their classmates , carl jenkins ( " doogie houser's " neil patrick harris , ) snags a job in military intelligence because of his strong psychic abilities .  he displays his gift by psychically ordering a pet ferret to crawl up his mother's leg .  a long , dull boot camp sequence follows , enlivened only by an extended coed shower scene where the recruits swap snappy banter as the " showgirls " director's camera roams over their buff bodies .  finally , a full hour into the film , the war finally starts and we meet the enemy .  the bugs hail from klendathu and colonize planets by hurling their spores into space .  they attack starships by spinning around and firing deadly plasma blasts from their rears .  yes , incredible as it seems , the bugs actually kill with cosmic farts .  a phenomenally large amount of money was spent creating the computer animated insects and the results are mixed at best .  sweeping distant shots depicting hordes of giant bugs racing to attack are both impressive and scary , but the close-ups are a different matter .  the insects have an odd , artificial look , like origami creations with a mottled plastic coating .  the attack scenes are intensely violent , as one would expect from verhoeven , but the overall look is too phony to generate any real tension .  while the action is frantic , the military strategy , wildly illogical even by hollywood standards , grows tiresome quickly .  verhoeven tries to spice things up by throwing in more satiric news coverage , but the faux-jingoistic scenes of children " doing their part for the war effort " by squishing roaches on a sidewalk aren't enough to make up for the long stretches of sheer dreck .  one can only guess what paul verhoeven was trying to do here .  his customary one part satire , two parts ultra-violence formula is way out of whack , and most of the film just flounders .  in " showgirls " fashion , some scenes are almost bad enough to be good .  an intergalactic kegger party , with jake busey playing " dixie " on a green plexiglas fiddle , has a certain bizarre appeal .  a sex scene between two of the teens achieves a smarmy charm , enhanced a few minutes later when the female receives a fatal jab from a bug , but tells her hero that she doesn't mind dying .   " it's okay , " she gasps , " i got to have you ! "  and then , of course , there's doogie's mind meld with a bug .  it's possible that verhoeven was attempting to create an homage to the era of the original novel .  heinlein's pre- " stranger in a strange land " books were aimed at adolescent males , and " starship troopers " has the antiseptic retro-future look of late 50s/early 60s sci-fi .  the one cityscape shown is a jetsons-like gleaming metropolis , with flying cars whizzing past an obvious matte painting .  the hairstyles are retro too , straight from the frankie avalon , annette funicello school of fashion .  ultimately , verhoeven's motives are irrelevant .  he has produce a gargantuan film that fails as an action film or as a social satire .  it even fails to be an entertaining bad movie .  avoid " starship troopers " at all costs . 
pos@ for the first reel of girls town , you just can't get over lili taylor .  is it possible to remain unperturbed that a woman of this age is playing a high school student ?  harder still , can you avoid astonishment at how perfect she is in the part ?  with the sure , showy expertise of a de niro , taylor imbues unwed mother patti with all the faux fuck-you confidence she can muster .  it's a deeply felt , dead-on performance , and by the halfway point you've forgiven taylor her own maturity .  for all its verite pretenses , girls town is less about a bunch of high-schoolers than it is about a movie director and a cadre of writer-performers examining their own feelings about rape , relationships , and american womanhood .  the movie's opening scenes sketch an easy friendship between a group of four smart/sassy high school outsiders on the verge of graduation : patti , angela ( bruklin harris ) , emma ( anna grace ) , and nikki ( aunjanue ellis ) .  but about 10 minutes into the film , we get word that nikki has swallowed a fistful of pills and bowed out of life .  the remaining girls manage to smug nikki's diary out of her grieving mother's home , and page through it at patti's place , investigating the root of nikki's despair .  what they find is cruel and galvanizing -- nikki had been raped by an editor at a newspaper where she interned , and was privately questioning the sanity and value of a world where such a thing could happen .  shell-shocked by the truth of the matter , the three girls begin to talk among themselves and come to a realization about their own lives .  emma says she was raped last year on a date with a football player .  patti's barely sympathetic , wondering what the hell emma thought she was doing with her shirt off in a jock's car .  and anyway , patti's had her own share of guys who wouldn't take no for an answer .  pained , acrimonious debate ensues as the trio grow more and more angry -- angry about the impossibility of saying no , and angry with themselves for being weak , for being naive , for putting up with it .   " why do we put up with it ? "  emma finally asks , once the argument has reached a fever pitch .   " we try to talk about it , and look what happens .  we fight for 20 minutes . "  there's the admirable crux of this picture .  girls town is a political film , in that it calls for action .  but it's incomplete-it's never quite sure how to justify that action , or what form it should take .  the trio become crusaders for their right to dignity , and it's surely one of this year's most stirring movie moments when emma lobs a concrete block through the passenger-side window of that damn jock's car ( doing the right thing ? ) .  they hang out in the bathroom , chatting incessantly and scrawling slogans and naming names on the door to a toilet stall .   " subvert the patriarchy , " emma writes , and then starts a hall of shame list underneath that other students begin to contribute to .  the girls silence their hecklers , take revenge on the deadbeat father of patti's child , and eventually come face-to-face with nikki's tormentor .  still , the movie has a desperately unfinished quality , and none of these subsequent exploits is particularly satisfying .   ( you keep waiting for someone to call the cops on these brazen girls , but nobody thinks of it . )  perhaps searching for a resolution missing from the material at hand , the film borrows its epigraphs from audre lorde and queen latifah ( " who you callin' a bitch ? " ) .  the points are well taken , but they should have been unnecessary .  long on characterization but a little short on story , girls town is less than it could have been , and too self-congratulatory for my own taste .  director jim mckay is best known as a consort of r . e . m . 's  michael stipe ( he directed the nearly unwatchable tourfilm for that band ) , and girls town is his first foray into feature filmmaking .  the movie was created and scripted by committee , but mckay and his lead performers had to shoot on a shoestring when , predictably , the group couldn't secure funding .  then again , girls town on a budget would hardly be the same film .  the movie's slapdash quality is key to its significance .  truth be told , all three of the leads look too wise for high school , but that's ok -- there's a once-removed quality to their fine , spontaneous performances , as the women take a very skillful look back at the girls they once were , the girls they wish they had been , or some combination .  for all its flaws , this one gets extra points for having its uncertain head and heart in the same noble place . 
neg@ an american werewolf in london is john landis' groundbreaking feature about an american tourist who gets himself bitten by a werewolf in jolly old england .  the groundbreaking part of the movie is the special effects .  more specifically , the makeup used for the transformation of a man into a werewolf ; and for the ghosts that haunt the main character .  even twenty years after its release , that part of the movie is still impressive .  although , i would have to say that it really is the only part of the movie that could be considered impressive .  the rest of the movie is a run of the mill werewolf flick with some extra gore thrown in for good measure .  if it weren't for the cutting edge makeup effects used in the werewolf transformation it is most likely that this is a film that would have gone largely unnoticed when it was released back in 1980 .  and with good reason -- the acting isn't great and neither is the writing .  well ok , we don't actually expect either of those things to be great in a horror film .  but one other important element is lacking here too -- it isn't scary .  with no exception , you know what is going to happen before it happens .  you don't even need the obligatory scary music to give you a hint .  i will give director john landis credit for this being one of the best looking horror films that i have ever seen .  but john , it just wasn't scary .  i didn't know if this was intended to be some sort of romantic drama and the whole werewolf thing was just thrown in to get people to come to the theater to see it , but it didn't work for me .  actually , it was intended as a sort of a spoof on horror films .  but the mix of the comedic moments with the melodrama was so bad ; the intended humor was lost on me .  it's never a good sign that you don't realize a movie is supposed to be funny until after the movie is long over and you read it in the background material .  call me crazy , but you shouldn't have to do research on a movie to enjoy it .  i'm not even going to get into the plot of the movie that much , since the title pretty well sums the whole thing up .  werewolf bites boy ( david naughton ) .  boy ends up in hospital where he is tended to and eventually falls for pretty nurse ( jenny agutter ) and then strange things begin to happen to boy .  including , and i must admit this is a very nice touch , visits from his friend who was killed in the same werewolf attack that ended up with him in the hospital .  the neat thing here is that his buddy is a rapidly deteriorating corpse .  i know it sounds strange , but it actually works .  the scenes between david naughton and the dead buddy ( griffin dunne ) are really the best parts of the movie .  as i said , probably the only reason that this film was a hit was because of the special effects .  while they are still impressive today , they aren't impressive enough , or plentiful enough to warrant watching this film .  and since they are more or less the highlight of the film , there are far better choices out there if you want a scary movie to curl up with your sweetheart to watch .  actually , the 1998 sequel , an american werewolf in paris , is more entertaining since it doesn't take itself as seriously and actually provides a few more laughs along the way . 
pos@ gothic murder-mystery yarns are not a new conceit .  in fact , they've been around in books and on film for many , many years .  without the proper handling , they come off as old-fashioned , bland , and outdated .   " the gift , " directed by sam raimi , is a tried-and-true effort that surprises very little , and includes everything from a wide array of suspects and red herrings , to mansions in the deep south with moss trees out front , to the eventual discovery of a waterlogged corpse found in a nearby pond .  it's fairly obvious who the killer is ; in fact , i predicted who it would be before the movie began and was correct in my preliminary suspicions .  the film ultimately shouldn't work , but it does , thanks to a sparkling cast that fills each character with so many memorable nuances , the most fun to be had is in simply watching the people interact with each other .  annie wilson ( cate blanchett ) is a recently widowed mother of three sons who makes her living giving psychic readings to the residents of her backwater southern hometown .  some of her mainstay clients include valerie barksdale ( hilary swank ) , who is severely abused by her husband donnie ( keanu reeves ) , and buddy cole ( giovanni ribisi ) , an unstable mechanic who is confused by the nightmares he's been having about a mysterious blue diamond that is somehow linked to his father .  for annie , she does not give the readings merely for money , but uses it as a way of seeking solace in finding the good in everyone's future .  her late grandmother ( rosemary harris ) told her as a child that it was a gift she was given , and she should always remember that .  when annie's eldest son is involved in a fight at school , she meets the nice-guy school principal , wayne collins ( greg kinnear ) , whom she finds herself attracted to .  but wayne is engaged to the wealthy jessica king ( katie holmes ) , whom annie immediately gets a negative vibe about .  at a party with her best friend linda ( kim dickens ) , annie stumbles upon jessica in a compromising position with lawyer david duncan ( gary cole ) .  soon after , jessica has disappeared , leaving everyone in a frenzy over what could have possibly happened to her , and annie starts to have nightmares and apparitions linking jessica with the vicious redneck donnie barksdale , and the pond behind his home .   " the gift " may be cliched on a sheer storytelling level , but the performances and tight direction from raimi ( who has redeemed himself for his embarrassing last film , 1999's " for love of the game " ) lift the picture up several notches .  slowly enveloping the viewer into the many intriguing characters and their individual plights , the disappearance of jessica at the 30-minute mark divulges the movie's true intentions and transforms the proceedings into a taut , at times frightening , horror-mystery .  at the center of the film is the exceptional cate blanchett ( 1999's " the talented mr . ripley " ) , who turns annie wilson from what could have been little more than a run-of-the-mill protagonist into a very exact , down-to-earth , realistic person with valid troubles and a caring attitude towards those around her .  blanchett takes the unextraordinary material and runs with it , giving the entire film a truly classy aura that it otherwise might not have had .  we follow her at every turn because she is so mesmerizing , both as a character and an actress .  blanchett isn't the only bright performer , as she is ably supported by one of the best casts of the year .  in her first role following her oscar win for 1999's " boys don't cry , " hilary swank is excellent as the confused valerie , who seeks guidance from annie , but is too scared to take her biggest advice of all : to leave the grossly abusive donnie .  as donnie , keanu reeves ( 2000's " the watcher " ) makes an utterly convincing backwoods meanie , so much so that it is difficult to believe he is an actor at all .  for the often-criticized reeves , whose acting abilities have never been the best , this is the biggest compliment he could possibly get , and it is also one of the better performances he has given .  giovanni ribisi ( 2000's " the boiler room " ) is heartbreaking as a mentally slow young man who sees annie as his only friend , and wants her to do nothing but help him understand why he is being plagued by bad dreams about his dad .  in the small , but pivotal role of the sleazy jessica king , katie holmes ( 2000's " wonder boys " ) has turned in yet another stunning supporting turn .  her promiscuous role of jessica is one she has never played before , and she is radiant in her few scenes .  finally , kim dickens ( 2000's " hollow man " ) makes her usual strong impression as annie's spicy best friend , linda .  the other notable aspect of " the gift " is its moody atmosphere that lays such a thickly foreboding air over every scene it's almost suffocating .  thanks to cleverly construed editing by arthur coburn and bob murawski , and the successful use of different eerie sounds effects and a very good music score by christopher young , the movie not only achieves a scary undercurrent , but one that is filled with dread .  helped along by a strong screenplay by billy bob thornton and tom epperson , which makes the most of its setting and delightful cast , " the gift " is that rarest of thrillers that actually thrills , and offers up a fair share of chills , too .  it may not be groundbreakingly original , but it sure is an entertaining ride for the duration of its running time . 
neg@ upon first viewing of this movie , the phrases " been there " and " done that " come quickly to mind .  spy hard manages to steal almost every joke from the zucker brothers films , the most popular of which are airplane and the naked gun series .  stealing stuff can be profitable in this industry , but only when you steal the right stuff .  what little plot there is involves dick steele , aka .  agent wd-40 ( leslie nielsen ) trying to save the world from an almost deranged madman played by andy griffith .  along the way to it goal ( goal ? ) , the film manages to spoof mainly the james bond type films , but also manages to hit on films such as home alone and sister act .  the trick about spoofing is that you have to actually be funny , or at the least , satirical .  spy hard achieves neither , as it borrows all of the wrong elements from the superior zucker brothers films .  the " dick , the world is in danger .  what is it ?  well , it's a big roundish ball floating in space around the sun . .   ( i'm paraphrasing ) " type of exchange is used at least four times in the opening ten minutes of the film , each time getting progressively less funny .  what they should have stolen were the background sight gags which were so effective in the zucker brother's films while writing their own dialogue .  director rick friedberg focuses more on the mug shots of his actors ( especially nielsen , who can do this quite well ) than on the delivery and context of their lines , much of the time cutting the punchline short .  the whole film seems to be in a race with itself to be over , as is evident in the final sequence , where there is no comedic denouement after the climax .  as was usual in the zucker brothers films and in spy hard , the end credits tend to replace this by being out of context .  one of the more amusing was , " captain of the enterprise . . . . . . james  t . kirk " .  overall , i thought this was a very weak effort .  while all of the right films to spoof were chosen , they used none of the right spoofing methods .  next time they should " spy " a little bit harder .   * * * * = excellent .  one of a kind .  must see .   * * * = entertaining .  worth the price of admission .   * * = fair .  nothing much special .   * = what were they thinking ? ? 
pos@ expand the final fifteen minutes of home alone into a feature-length film and you've got baby's day out--an agreeably amusing children's comedy about a bumbling band of kid kidnappers who are unwittingly outwitted by an innocent infant .  the plot tracks a trio of crooks-posed-as-photographers ( mantegna , pantoliano , haley ) who steal nine-month-old bennington august cottwell iv , aka baby bink , from his old-money home .  but the plan goes awry when baby crawls out an open window and into the streets of downtown chicago !  following the path of his favorite story , called " baby's day out , " baby rides a bus and visits the zoo and winds up at a skyscraper construction site .  while baby stays unscathed , the crooks fare worse for the wear .  the stooges get hit by boards and dropped from roofs and , of course , suffer multiple crotch injuries .   ( john wayne bobbitt should probably steer clear of this one . )  like he did in planes , trains , and automobiles , john hughes again demonstrates his mastery of the simple set-up and extended execution .  here , he's aided and abetted by a director , patrick read johnson , whose choreography could rival a coen brother .  best bit : baby crawling across a busy city street .  baby's day out has only two emotions--awww and ouch--and the actors play them accordingly .  forget the cartoon concern of lara flynn boyle or cynthia nixon , disposable as mom and nanny , respectively , the ones to watch are the ones who are wincing .  joe mantegna is a great head stooge , barking lines like " that little doo-doo machine is my retirement money . "  brian haley has a great scene with a gorilla , while joe pantolianto plays curly to mantegna's moe .   * he * is funny .  needless to say , twins adam and jacob warton are adorable beyond belief . 
neg@ among multitude of erotic thrillers , that had been released in the early 1990s , woman of desire is interesting only because it was directed by robert ginty , star of the b-grade action films of the previous decade .  those who tend not to be nostalgic about 1980s can find very good reason in the type of movies that made ginty the star .  as director , ginty did very little to improve that impression .  the protagonist of the movie is jack ( played by jeff fahey ) , yacht skipper that falls madly in love with christina ford ( played by bo derek ) .  however , she has relationship with rich and powerful jonathan ashby ( steven bauer ) .  one stormy night , the tragedy occurs and jack is accused of rape and murder .  however , his good friend walter j . hill ( robert mitchum ) happens to be very good lawyer , so jack might even prove his innocence in the end .  belonging more to the genre of courtroom drama than erotic thriller , woman of desire distinguishes itself from similar films by having almost all characters behaving like total idiots .  unfortunately , this film isn't comedy and any laugh is unintentional .  the characters are totally antipathetic and irritating and soon we stop caring what would happen to them .  the actors that play them don't help either .  that is especially the case with jeff fahey , whose jack is so stupid that even the character played by fahey in lawnmower man looks like a genius in comparison .  his partner bo derek , on the other hand , shows that she didn't age enough to cease being the sex goddess , but that is small compensation for her apparent lack of acting talents .  ginty , on the other hand , tries to bring some life in the movie by using many flashbacks and strange angles of shooting , but in the end it gets only irritating to the already bored and dissatisfied viewer . 
pos@  " you'll go ape over tarzan because it's more fun than a barrel of monkeys ! "  okay , there's the quote in case disney wants to put something in their ads for the movie .  disney's latest animated feature throws us right into the action from the very beginning , skipping the usual main title sequence and putting us on pitching waves as a small family attempts to escape from a sinking ship .  father , mother , and infant somehow make it to shore amidst a rousing song by phil collins , and have soon built a treehouse which would impress the swiss family robinson .  it's amazing , the kinds of things you can do when you work to a soundtrack .  before you know it , an unfortunate set of circumstances put the baby in the hands of kala ( glenn close ) , a mother ape who recently lost her own baby to a predatory leopard .  against the wishes of her mate and family leader , kerchak ( lance henricksen ) , she takes on the infant boy as her own .  tarzan is not so much a story about a human boy surviving in the african jungles as it is about one who does not really fit in either humanity or the wild .  much of tarzan's young life is spent trying to become one of the apes in the eyes of his peers and his " father , " which occasionally gets him into trouble no matter how well-meant his attempts .  all he's looking for is acceptance , perhaps a goal easily identifiable by young viewers , but one which will ring true with a lot of adults .  when you really think about it , this story fits right into the disney formula of the outcast that triumphs in the end .  look back on past disney animated features and you'll see the trend .  growing up , tarzan ( voiced by alex d . linz as a child , and by tony goldwyn as an adult ) has a couple of friends .  one is an ape named terk ( rosie o'donnell ) , and the other is a paranoid hypochondriac of an elephant named tantor ( wayne knight ) .  both provide the requisite comic relief ( timon and poombah from the lion king immediately come to mind ) and perform the usual hijinks as prescribed by the disney mold .  i'm beginning to think anyone can write the screenplay for one of these films .  just fill in the blanks !  can you see it ?   " now we have to have a couple of zany friends for out hero who might get him into mischief , but cover for him or come to his rescue when he needs it .  we've already had a fish and a crab , and we've had a candle and a teapot , a genie and a dog , a few stone statues . . . . have  we had an ape and an elephant yet ?  well , there we go ! "  of course , there's gotta be romance somewhere along the line , so jane ( minnie driver ) gets introduced about halfway through .  together with her father dr . porter ( nigel hawthorne ) and the big game hunter clayton ( brian blessed ) , jane is on an expedition to find and study the wild gorillas of africa .  she discovers the man raised by apes and is enchanted almost immediately , and soon shares an amusing version of the compulsory " you tarzan , me jane " scene .  thankfully , those aren't the exact words .  however , i found it distracting that tarzan is going " ohh ohh ee ee " one second and then tells jane his name in this manly voice with perfect diction .  how does he tell his name to another ape ?   " ohh ohh ee - tarzan - ee ee ohh ? "  well , regardless of my picky nature , the romance actually works as only disney romance can : purely contrived , but for some reason rather believable .  but hey , tarzan's a young adult .  do you think he dated a few of the female apes before meeting jane ?  isn't that illegal in most countries ?  oh , well .  i don't think disney will be using my quote anymore .  tarzan departs from the usual disney feature in that this one is not a musical .  there's lots of music to be sure , but not a single character song in the whole hour and a half of running time .  we instead get more of a phil collins concert , as no less than five of his original songs are used as interlude material .  this isn't really a bad thing , as the songs are very high-energy and catchy ( i found myself singing one to myself for most of the following day ) ; it's just different .  do yourself a favor and see this film in a theater with a good sound system , because the music will come through astonishingly well and really enhance the movie .  with each new feature , disney animation gets even better .  not necessarily by leaps and bounds , but since they put out a new film each year , a steady rate of improvement is apparent , and this definitely shows in tarzan .  there are a couple of scenes where the animation achieves a near 3-d effect , and a number of scenes which feature tarzan moving through the trees are absolutely dizzying .  the way he slides down tree limbs and trunks is very reminiscent of skateboarding and rollerblading maneuvers , and had me thinking this isn't just tarzan , it's " extreme tarzan . "  however , tarzan does not seem to have what i call its " chandelier scene , " which is the one scene to which the animators have chosen to devote an inordinate amount of effort , utilizing a computer-assisted process that makes the animation absolutely breathtaking .  lasting but a few seconds at most , it's been the signature of nearly every disney animated feature since beauty and the beast , in which the castle ballroom chandelier was rendered in stunning detail .  as usual , the voice talent is up to snuff , convincingly make you believe in the convictions of animated characters .  the one poor choice in casting , however , was rosie o'donnell .  going into the film , i didn't know she was even a part of it , but when terk started talking , i recognized her voice immediately .  her performance was fine , but through the rest of the film i kept thinking , " that's no boy ape , that rosie o'donnell . "  distracting to say the least .  i'll admit i've never read the edgar rice burroughs story " tarzan of the apes , " so i couldn't tell you how true this film stays to the book .  but unless you're a purist , you should have few objections to this film .  with solid performances , action , adventure , a bit of romance , and great music and animation , tarzan should appeal to the kids and to the kid in all of us .  note : when i wrote my review of mulan a year ago , i went off on the promotional and merchandising tie-ins prevalent with the release of a disney animated feature .  this time , i'll just say that i went to mcdonald's yesterday to treat myself to a mcflurry , and tarzan was on the cup .  'nuff said . 
neg@ numerous comparisons can be made with this movie to past sci-fi , suspense thrillers .  soldier is a multi ? crossbreed between the likes of terminator , aliens and offspring .  the problem with such mixed genes is that the final product is a real mongrel ? not well made and should have been put down before production got off the ground .  besides this , the action is mediocre when compared to the standard action flicks of this day and age .  the fight scenes between jason scott lee and kurt russell seem laboured , slow and sluggish , and could have done with better choreography .  russell who is usually a good actor in b-grade action flicks is unusually hampered by his character ? sergeant todd , who seems more like a sergeant toad .  besides having almost no dialogue , his character appears stunted , zombie-like which is in line with his screen persona , but scores little points of empathy with the audience .  this movie has not made me change my opinion about director paul anderson , whose last epic event horizon has left an unusually bitter taste in my mouth .  although this movie does not come anywhere close to the strangeness of former , it is still a long way from anything considered desirable . 
pos@ capsule : suprisingly more of a comedy than a straight action flick , which isn't necessarily a bad thing .  not exactly oscar caliber , but one helluva bullet-riddled good time .  extended review : you know , i remember when hitmen were evil , murderous scum .  alas , the times are a-changin' .  in a recent string of movies , hitmen are suddenly wise- cracking , fun-loving killers-with-hearts .  this brings us to hong kong director kirk wong's first american feature , the big hit .  oddly enough , about the same time last year a similar film , grosse point blank , was released .  advertised as a quirky comedy with hints of action , it turned out to have a suprising dosage of it .  the big hit is quite the opposite .  it was hyped as " the new film from producer john woo " , so one would it expect lots of stylized killing and action .  however , there's a sore lack of it , which is about the only thing wrong with the big hit .  the film starts out with mel smiley and his cohorts doing a job on a white slaver .  mel , played by mark wahlberg in a dopey , milquetoast role , is a killing machine ; he flips , spins , even breakdances whilst popping caps .  sadly , he doesn't get a chance to do much of it .  except for the beginning set piece and the last 20 twenty minutes or so , the film is in comedy mode .  the action , at least what there is of it , is prime cut stuff .  wong , after numerous hong kong features , makes quite a nice u . s . debut .  however , his pacing is a bit off , with the action sequences only bookending the movie and not lasting long enough .  they start off electrifying and fresh , but just kinda stop .  normally , this would hamper a movie to the point of being unenjoyable .  luckily , we have ben ramsey's screenplay , a bitingly funny piece of work .  the only problem is there might be too much humor , one joke makes you laugh so hard you miss the next few .  some of best gags include an oriental film maker down on his luck and one of mel's hitmen pals that has just discovered onanism .  the only problem is how some of the minor characters are handled , some being there only for a laugh , which sometimes works , sometimes doesn't .  overall , the big hit may have it's flaws , but it makes up for them in a stylishly directed , gut-wrenchingly funny joyride .  definately one of the better ways to spend two hours . 
neg@  ( dreamworks skg ) running time : 2 hours starring robert duvall , tea leoni and elijah wood directed by mimi leder the first of the two asteroid movies coming out this year ( the second is the macho armageddon ) is actually a dull affair .  elijah wood plays leo biederman , who during astronomy class discovers that a large asteroid is heading for earth .  tea leoni plays a ( rather crap ) news reporter , jenny lerner , who soon discovers about this asteroid through a very long winded and boring way , and robert duvall plays the leader of a space crew , spurgeon tanner , who are planning to blow the asteroid out of the path of earth .  also featuring is morgan freeman as the president , and maximilian schell and vanessa redgrave as jenny's father and mother .  while many people will walk into the film expecting a big special effects fest with the asteroid blowing everything up ( as the trailers seem to promise ) , the film is actually more of a character study , if a very poor one .  the main problem is that there are too many characters in the film , and not enough time to explore them all .  only the space crew are given any depth , jenny lerner , leo and the president are surprisingly 2d , and we never get to know these characters .  and because i couldn't care for them , i didn't really give a crap if the asteroid killed them or not .  the script by bruce joel rubin and michael tolkin is horribly simple , and never really makes any interesting statements .  mimi leder , the former er director and director of the average the peacemaker ( 1996 ) , again directs in a ho-hum style , and never really gets any emotion out of a scene , which is a shame .  the cast are seemingly on autopilot , although tea leoni does gives a rather good performance , even if she acts a bit too dorky for her own good .  she seems uncommonly stupid for a journalist .  robert duvall is on autopilot with a underwritten role , he just seems to be in this film for the money .  elijah wood , one of the best child actors working today , is surprisingly average , although his choice of roles lately haven't exactly been brilliant ( i . e .  flipper , 1996 ) .  his role is also vastly underwritten .  morgan freeman , again , is utterly wasted with a ridiculously underwritten role .  like duvall , he just seems to be in the film for the money .  the supporting cast are all o . k , none making much of an impression .  ok , so deep impact may have messed up character wise , but surely the special effects are good ?  well , yes and no .  although the special effects should be impressive , with a massive tidal wave destroying new york , the special effects look like , well , special effects .  sadly , the waves looks like it's been drawn on computer , and doesn't look too good at all .  surprising really , when the effects are done by industrial light & magic , who did the effects for the lost world and twister .  in the end , deep impact is a wasted opportunity .  what could of been a moving movie with good effects turns out to be a dud in both characters and effects .  the 2 hours the film had could have been used to much greater effect .  once again , dreamworks has churned out another average movie .  let's hope armageddon is a bit better .  overall rating= review by david wilcock web space provided by geocities 
pos@ no matter what you suspect , this isn't your usual action thriller .  the usual suspects is an intelligent crime mystery story from up-and-coming director bryan singer .  it's one of those movies that , after everything is revealed rapid-fire at the end , you immediately want to rewind and watch again because earlier scenes take on a new light .  plot twists a-go-go are what you get here -- i gave up trying to figure out the mystery of keyser soze after awhile and just sat back and waited for them to reveal it to me .  keyser soze is a name you'll hear at least a hundred times if you watch the usual suspects and for good reason .  it's not only the name of the mysterious ( and possibly even mythical ) crime boss in the movie , it also sums up the movie -- " keyser soze " in latin means " an intelligent crime mystery story from up-and-coming director bryan singer . "  or maybe i shouldn't have bought a foreign-language dictionary from the same company that makes those 99-cent encyclopedias sold in supermarkets .  at the movie's opening , a group of known criminals are brought in for a police lineup , including mcmanus ( stephen baldwin ) , keaton ( gabriel byrne ) , fenster ( benicio del toro ) , buckney ( kevin pollack ) and verbal ( kevin spacey , winner of the best supporting actor academy award{symbol 153 \ f " times new roman " \ s 10 \ h} for his performance in the movie ) .  verbal is so-named because he frequently rambles on about anything or nothing .  he also earns his name as the movie's narrator , spouting memorable lines like " the greatest trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist " ( although , obviously , he does exist -- what else could explain kris kross having a comeback in 1996 ? ) while being interrogated by police detective chazz palminteri ( any actor with multiple z's in their name is okay in my book ) .  we see the story unfold as spacey retells it .  the five felons , upon being released from the lineup , get their revenge on the police by exposing a corrupt taxi service -- whereby elite criminals pay to be smuggled through town in cop cars -- and stealing all the money and drugs in the car .  it's a definite case of male bonding for the five criminals , who later find out they were brought together by the unseen keyser soze , who sends a minion to them with an offer they can't refuse .  namely , they have to destroy soze's main competitors in organized crime by infiltrating a ship , shooting a bunch of people , burning all the drugs and stealing $91 million cash .  spacey does a terrific job of bringing his seemingly unintelligent " cripple " character to life and baldwin , byrne , palminteri and the rest make for a good supporting cast .  the usual suspects is one of those movies that deftly mixes scenes of violence and explosions with an underlying sense of mystery and suspense , keeping the viewer guessing until the very end -- and then still leaving a few details open for scrutiny and discussion .  i suppose all that would be cleared up if i really had rewound the movie and watched it again instead of changing the channel and wondering in disbelief what the hell kris kross was doing on mtv .  a different mystery , i guess , which may turn into a _murder_ mystery if that video ever comes on again . . . 
neg@  " ladybugs " is a typical comedy that relies on three supposed guarantees : the pathetic team who beats the champs ; cross dressing ; and the presence of rodney dangerfield .  this picture doesn't play like a comedy for children , so who is it aimed at ?  and why is it told like a 91-minute sit-com instead of a feature film ?  rodney dangerfield stars as chester lee , a total schmuck working at a huge corporation .  he obviously doesn't have a lot of self esteem and thinks he has to kiss up to get ahead , which he does by volunteering to coach the company's girls' soccer team .  what a shock to learn chester and his assistant julie ( jackee ) know absolutely nothing about the game , and the players seem to know even less .  i didn't laugh , but for some reason it didn't annoy me that much .  chester's fiancee bess ( graff ) thinks he got a promotion in addition to the coaching position , and of course she has a slacker for a son who is doing poorly in school and is kicked off the sports teams .  jonathon brandis is a nice surprise as matthew , who agrees to dress up as a girl named martha to help out chester ( probably because the girl he has a crush on plays on the team - what original story ideas ! ) .  what we get is just another retread of the " underdog sports team " mixed with some cross dressing .  unfortunately , the film isn't smart enough to play upon the drag aspect .  in fact , it downplays it so heavily it's totally unbelievable .  could it be any more obvious martha is a boy ?  he only wears a girl's wig , without any makeup , and they don't even give him falsies .  brandis doesn't bother to mimic a girl's voice either .  then there is a pointless scene where chester and matthew shop for a dress , but for what reason ?  martha is only seen on the soccer field , why would they buy a dress for her ?  just when we think the martha character is going to be useful , she disappears , and the story wanders aimlessly looking for a new plot to pick up on .  when bess discovers what's really going on she breaks up with chester , and the relationship is forgotten about and the film focuses on the soccer team and the tension between chester and his boss .  this film could've been less bad had it been the cliche sports comedy , but it feels the need to go off on tangents that are completely unnecessary ( and bad at that ) .  there's just too much of a sit-com feel here , especially during the so-called serious moments , and all the confusion between the characters .  i've seen worse movies than " ladybugs , " but for some reason it contained some sort of bizarre charm , so even when it turns sour it doesn't seem as bad as it is .  dangerfield finally gets his respect in the end , but at what a price . 
pos@ i'm an avid fan of the " alien " saga , so this review is obviously a tad biased ( at least i admitted it ) .  of course , that doesn't mean that i'm gonna be giving this a four-star review or something , because " alien : resurrection , " the fourth film in the cool-as-hell series is not an absolutely amazing film , much like the first two were .  however , it's a very good film which never fails to entertain , and consists of yet another mutation in the style of the series .  in short , i had a good time .   " alien : resurrection " leaves off 200 years after the last one , where our heroine protagonist , ellen ripley ( sigourney weaver ) , the science fiction genre's answer to job , had killed herself after discovering that an alien was inside her body , waiting to pop out like it did to john hurt in the first one .  of course , the last one wasn't very great or anything ( i liked it , though not as much as the first two ) , and more importantly , it wasn't financially successful ( a tawdry 55 million bucks ! ) .  so back we are , with ripley back as a clone , which means we get another little satirical look at cloning ( not that that's a bad thing , but it's becoming a cliche ) .  so she's cloned aboard an even more futuristic-looking ship called " the auriga " by some doctors ( including the necessary bad government guy , dr . wren , played by j . e . freeman , as well as the little-seen dr . gediman , played by none other than brad douriff ) , mainly because they have a version of her with the alien still inside her .  once you get past the fact that you can't figure out where they got her blood ( although i think it might have been from the blood samples taken by charles dance in the third one ) , the film's okay .  also on board are a band of mercenary pirates , including michael wincott , ron perlman , kim flowers , raymond cruz , dominique pinon ( a jeunet sytable ) and . . . winona ryder , who plays analee call , who turns out to have a bit of a secret ( i won't state it , but unless you've been shacking up with salinger for the past two years , you probably know all about it - although it's nicely covered up ) .  there's a bit of a non-sexual-yet-slightly-homoerotic relationship between her and ripley , but it's never really deepened enough .  oh well .  well , as you might have guessed , the alien and its spawn escape and run around the ship .  and it pretty much does away with most of the people on the ship ( including some shocks - dan hedaya , for instance , who's death is comical yet sad since , well , he's dan hedaya ) , and the remaining people ( about 7 or 8 ) are left to try and escape and stop the aliens from doing any major harm since the ship is heading quickly towards earth .  of course , the plot is all balderdash , and just an excuse for some good old " alien " -brand fun .  the real focus of the series seems to be on style , not really substance ( although there's always a bit of it , most notably in " aliens " with the relationship between ripley and the little girl ) .  what's interesting about the series is that each film is stylistically different in its approach .   " alien " is a claustrophobic exercise in quiet frights .   " aliens " is a wild , tense thriller .   " alien 3 " is a bleak , moody piece of semi-noir .   " alien 4 " is kind of like an off-beat french film , filled with lots of humor , and cool scares .  jean-pierre jeunet ( without his usual directing partner , marc caro ) creates a ship filled with the kind of scares films like " das boot " has , with echoes hinting at a possible threat .  the chills in the film are really cool , especially with the music , which is sometimes turned down completely for certain scenes ( there's the most tense surgery scene since " face/off " towards the beginning ) .  and not every chill turns into a bloody mess or anything like that .  this all combined with some good old humor makes this as interesting visually and stylistically as the others .  there are even a couple scenes which just stick out afterwards as being brilliantly executed .  one is the aforementioned surgery scene .  another one takes place between call and ripley , which is just awesome .  the underwater chase scene and the ladder scene afterwards is one of the most tense , thrilling , and jaw-dropping scenes in the entire saga ( with a small allusion to jeunet's earlier film , " delicatessen " ) .  and the way they do in the final alien is hysterically cool ( with a lovely allusion to " goldfinger " ) .  but the best scene in the entire film ( i'm sure i'm not the first to mention it ) takes place when ripley sees all the variations on her as they cloned her ( she has a an " 8 " tatooed on her arm ) .  it might be the most emotionally stimulating scene in the entire saga .  the screenplay by joss whedon is not a great piece of work , as it never really deapens a lot of the characters .  however , it does make us care about most of them , so that when there's very little of them , and it looks like one or more of them may become alien chow , we are pretty scared .  and , yeah , there are some very funny lines ( ripley : " who do i have to fuck to get off this boat ? ! "  johner : " well , i can get you off .  but not this ship . " )  the acting is good all around , with stand-out performances from ron perlman as the male chauvenist pig johner , and leland orser ( the poor bastad in " se7en " who performed the " lust " sin ) as an anxiety-ridden wannabe woody allen who has an alien inside him .  winona ryder is good , but not amazing like she usually is ( although she meshes well with the film ) .  of course , and as usual , sigourney weaver steals the show .  playing a variation on the ripley character ( less emotional , and more rude and bitter ) , she pulls it off while still being utterly lovable .  she's not going to get an oscar nomination like she did for " aliens , " but she's just awesome .  overall , it's a thrilling , entertaining film which doesn't really amaze like the first two , but is much more amazing than the third installment .  the style is the best part of the film , which isn't really a bad thing , but it being the best part takes away from a lot of the depth the film occasionally tries to apply .  but it's entertaining as hell , and it's definitely fit for the " alien " series . 
neg@ every now and then , reviewers are faced with the films that are hard to be properly reviewed .  most of the time it happens with films that leave so overwhelming impact , either good or bad , that in the end reviewers must work hard to express his thoughts or feelings .  but , sometimes it can happen for rather trivial reasons .  i love trouble happened to be one of such occasions for the author of this review .  the impression left by the film wasn't overwhelming - on the contrary , there were hardly any impression at all , since i had real trouble keeping myself awake while watching it .  which surprise me to this day , because the movie theatre was full , i was close to sound speakers , the show wasn't late and i didn't lack sleep before the show .  such things happen very rarely to me , and , after many years , the closest thing to solution to this mystery is probably the quality of the film itself .  the plot revolves around two rival chicago reporters - old peter brackett ( nick nolte ) and young , aspiring sabrina peterson ( julia roberts ) .  two of them are assigned to cover the train collision .  as soon as they meet , they start scooping each other , but during the process they both discover sinister plot involving cancerogenic milk , and also the romantic feelings they have for each other .  the plot in this film is rather secondary to its real raison d' ? tre - romantic pairing reminiscent of classical screwball comedies starring spencer tracy and katharine hepburn .  movie author , director and screenwriter charles shyer , who had some experiences with turning the screwball spirit into modern setting with father of the bride , tries again , this time pairing old nick nolte with young julia roberts .  however , although there is some chemistry between the two , soon it stops to arouse any interest .  it probably happens due to poorly executed genre mix , that collides light-hearted romantic comedy with rather uninteresting plot suitable to pure action thrillers .  shyer as director fails to make the proper transition between the two , and fails in both areas , making the story cliched and predictable .  the end result is rather forgettable effort , which convinced me not to watch movie again .  i'll give it the benefit of the doubt , though . 
pos@ anastasia contains something that has been lacking from all of the recent disney releases . . .   ( especially hercules ) . . .  emotion .  all the wacky characters voiced by celebrities and fantastically animated adventure sequences aren't going to hold anyone's interest unless there is an emotional core to hold it all together .  not since disney's beauty & the beast has there been such a compelling animated film with interesting characters and drama that works .  the story of the romanov family , the rulers of russia , and their downfall begins the film .  anastasia , one of the daughters , narrowly escapes the mad monk rasputin ( voiced by christopher lloyd ) with her grandmother ( voiced by angela landsbury ) .  but anastasia gets lost , and grows up with no memory of her royal origins .  the grandmother lives in paris , hoping to someday find her beloved anastasia , the only member of the family to survive the russian revolution .  a young woman named anya ( voiced by meg ryan ) runs across dimitri ( john cusack ) and vlad ( kelsey grammar ) , who are trying to put together a scheme to create an anastasia to fool the grandmother and get the reward money .  they pick anya to pose as their princes , and of course , it is soon revealed that anya is in fact the lost anastasia .  dimitri realizes that he can never win her love as he is a commoner , and meanwhile , rasputin is not dead , and plots his revenge against the last romanov .  the plot is actually quite well structured .  there are a lot of complexities that may have to be explained to the kids later , but it moves along fast enough that they'll never have time to be bored .  what this really means is that the adults won't be bored by it either .  there is a great deal of banter between anya and dimitri that is very funny , and their relationship develops quite naturally as the film progresses .  there is , of course , lots of comedy for the kids , including rasputin's pet bat , bartok ( hank azaria ) , who is easily the funniest thing in the film .  however , the comical scenes never distract from the drama , but are worked into the plot almost seamlessly .  the animation is gorgeous - the characters seem to come to life through the talented animators .  not since beauty & the beast have animated characters had so much life to them .  even without the voices , they act .  the musical number in paris is a show-stopper , with some of the backgrounds rendered in an impressionist painting style .  as with all recent animated features , there are songs , however , these songs do more than just provide fodder for top-40 singers to get on the radio ( although there are three of them during the end credits ) .  the songs are all very catchy , and advance the plot , instead of just being showpieces ( except for the paris number , but that's so much fun , it's okay . . . ) .  i can't reccomend anastasia highly enough .  it's a wonderful film that ranks right up there with other animated classics .  kids and adults alike will enjoy it , and it's also nice to have a quality animated feature film from another studio besides disney . 
neg@ there was probably a good reason that the warner bros . studio chose not to allow critics to view this steven seagal film when it first opened .  and , after seeing this piece of toxic waste , i now know why .  this movie is by far the worst offering that has hit the screen since possibly those ernest movies years ago .  fire down below centers its story on a little mining town in god's country , somewhere in eastern kentucky .  it's beauty and natural goodness is being slowly destroyed by an uncaring mining magnate ( kris kristopherson , who constantly looks like he wants to kill his agent for getting him this role ) .  it turns out that he's filling the mines throughout kentucky with toxic waste for a tidy profit .  seagal plays jack taggert , an aikido-versed , fighting machine , who is an agent with the epa .  no . . . not the cia nor the fbi nor the nsa .  it's the environmental protection agency .  i had no idea that epa agents were trained to be killers !  taggert is sent to find the perpetrators and to bring them to justice .  written by someone named jeb , i could already envision the stereotypes of incestuous relationships , banjo-picking preachers , and dumb-as-nails rednecks .  but the script puts seagal right smack dab in the middle of all of these scenarios as he tries to discreetly fit in .  seagal's idea of a disguise is a long-length $1000 leather jacket .  but to get closer to the kinfolk , he will fix people's porches for free .  that's another great epa asset - teaching agents how to fix porches .  slow and plodding , this project is a total mess .  the sometimes allure of watching seagal is watching him outmaneuver enemies that outnumber and outgun him like in under seige .  here , his bravado basically turns into bullyness .  townsfolk who are foolish enough to challenge seagal are quickly subdued .  fight scenes are quick and senseless and offers no enjoyment value whatsoever .  and his soap box message wears thin within the first 15 minutes .  the most annoying moment comes when he barges into the middle of a sunday church ceremony , gets behind the pulpit , and beseeches the townsfolk to take control of their lives and to help clean up the environment .  but the epitome of how moralistically mushy this film gets happens when the person responsible for the toxic dumping , kristopherson , meets up with seagal .  kristopherson asks seagal how much it will take for him to go away .  seagal gallantly replies : " i'll leave when you take the poison from the streams and the earth . "  i was expecting patriotic music to start blasting and a show of fireworks in the background .  this is truly nothing more than a pompous showcase for seagal's righteousness and narcissistic arrogance .  seagal has been vanguard in trying to bring a new genre into the filmplace , that of the enviro-thriller ( on deadly ground ) .  however , the message will never come across through poorly developed vehicles like this .  still , i believe in preserving mother earth , so save your $5 and please donate it instead to some worthy environmentally conscious charity . 
pos@ in the grand scheme of mel gibson movies , payback was better than conspiracy theory , but not as good as braveheart or lethal weapon .  in other words , it's a decent couple of hours of entertainment , but 20 years from now if a they compile a list of mel gibson's greatest hits , payback probably won't be on it .  gibson plays a crook who gets double crossed by his partner after they heist a payroll .  mel's partner needed the money to pay off a mob debt .  so he puts a couple of bullets in mel , leaving him for dead , and goes on to pay off his creditors .  but , mel isn't dead ( it would be a real short movie if he was ) and he certainly isn't happy .  to make matters worse , he wants his money back and is willing to go to any lengths to accomplish this feat .  his ex partner has already used it to pay off the mobsters , so mel goes after the mob to get it back .  payback is often a very violent film .  to its credit , there are a few scenes that could have been very graphic , but the director ( i'm not sure which one -- more about that in a second ) made the choice to let the audience use their imagination instead of subjecting us to the usual gratuitous gore found in many films .  the film appears a bit disjointed in places , which is understandable considering producer / star gibson wasn't thrilled with how the film turned out and wanted parts of it re-shot .  when the director refused , another one was brought in to do the re-shoot .  so as a result while the final product is apparently better than the original ( although personally i would love to see the original version for comparisons sake ) it does get a bit of a choppy feel to it towards the end .  it's always tough to make a film where the main character is a villain , unless that person has some redeeming qualities .  in this case , gibson's character has few redeeming qualities .  but hey , its mel , so even when he is killing people in cold blood we are still rooting for him .  my guess is that if that you put some other johnny bananas actor in this role , the audience would not be quite as responsive .  gibson is gibson , whether he is playing a suicidal cop or a stone cold killer , he does a good job .  he almost guarantees that no matter what else happens in the rest of the movie at least the audience is going to get one good performance .  this time out mel is surrounded by a good supporting cast , including maria bello ( as his love interest ) , william devane and kris kristofferson ( as mod bosses ) .  the man who steals the show and unfortunately doesn't have a real big part is james coburn ( as yet another mobster ) .  if i had one big disappointment in this film , it would be that coburn didn't have a bigger role .  in the end , payback is a fairly solid action thriller , just not in quite the same league as some of mel gibson's other work . 
neg@ vampires starts out almost in the style of a spaghetti western with an attack on a small homestead in new mexico .  the house has a nest of vampires and jack crow ( james woods ) is leading a team of vampire hunters in to clean them out .  while the initial imagery is a little over-dramatic , it gives way to what is a fairly decent action sequence .  that is enough action to last us a while and we could , director john carpenter would let us , get to a story line .  but it is not very long and there is not much plot until the next big action scene .  then there is only a bit more of plot before the next action scene after that .  the plot is kept to a minimum and the interesting ideas in the plot really get the short end .  and that is something of a pity because the film , based on the book vampire$ by john steakley , gives us a myth for the origins of vampires and explains why vampires are so intertwined with religious imagery .  this could be an interesting departure from the standard vampire film , but carpenter decides to tell us about it rather than to show it .  what carpenter saves his serious screen time for a sequence of spectacular fights between hunters and vampires .  there is a lot of fighting and lots of gore .  anything intriguing is kept to a minimum to so it does not get in the way of pleasing the action film fans .  this has not always been carpenter's style .  his 1981 version of the thing has action but also challenges the viewer to do a little thinking about the film's central science fictional question .  jack crow heads a vampire swat team , cleaning up nests of vampires with high-tech spears and crossbows .  in the early part of the film his team is wiped out by a particularly mean vampire valek ( thomas ian griffith ) who has been tipped off to who crow is .  now crow team is gone and he is down to himself and his sidekick tony montoya ( daniel baldwin ) .  to make matters worse , he does not know the people on his own side , tony and his backers , he can trust .  meanwhile jack is sure the vampires are looking for something that must be hidden somewhere here in new mexico .  if this is sounding like a very tired police corruption plot with a few obvious substitutions , that's exactly what it is .  the same story looks just as well with two partner cops looking for a gang of hood who are themselves looking for a packet of heroin .  but carpenter goes against a familiar principle of film : show people , don't tell them .  just about everything in the plot other than the fights we are told about in the dialog and not shown .  fundamental questions in the plot like where does crow get his funding , why are the vampires in new mexico--what do they want and why do they want it , what is the connection of the vampires and the catholic church , how did crow come to be a vampire hunter and why devote his life to it ?  the answers to any of these questions could have been dramatized , but instead are revealed through dialog .  now if all this was not bad enough , carpenter misuses the james wood persona .  woods plays a particular sort of cool lowlife very well .  but carpenter leads off the film by having woods do some sergio-leone- style mythic posturing .  while his crew prepares for an attack he stands staring fixedly through shades at the house that will be his target .  woods does not work as a larger than life mythic hero .  that is not his style and it just does not work very well .  there are some simple things that carpenter should be looking for as director that he misses .  in one scene we are looking at a motel room with dead people on the floor .  one female corpse is on the floor in front of a chair so that there is about an inch of daylight between her and the chair .  as the actress breathes the gap widening and narrowing makes it obvious her arm is moving up and down .  one also wonders how the existence of vampires is kept secret .  these vampires do not maintain a low profile .  there are arguably logical flaws in the film .  there is some question in my mind whether carpenter has a consistent policy on what effect bullets have on vampires .  it would take some rationalization to explain why in some scenes sunlight has a dramatic effect on vampires , yet in a scene toward the end a vampire can walk under a burned roof that lets him be swept by beams of sunlight .  i suspect that the book on which this film was based was better thought out .  while i might recommend this film to an action audience i would say that what i look for in a vampire film vampires rates a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale .  perhaps i will read the book . 
pos@ accepting his oscar as producer of this year's best picture winner , saul zaentz remarked that his cup runneth over .  one could almost say the same about his much-prized film .  rarely is the screen so overflowing with potent imagery , symbolism , ideas and metaphors , complex and literate storytelling , all possessed of an intelligence that invites -- even demands -- constant scrutiny , an acuity of perception and observation that must somehow yield the truth .  in short , the antithesis of all things hollywood .  yet this surfeit of signals is made to serve a rather pale and thinly realized love story whose emotional impact is as dry as a desert wind .  ralph fiennes is the title character , an amnesiac burn victim whose gradual return to memory , and particularly the memory of love , is the ostensible focus of the film .  but despite the use of numerous flashbacks to help put the pieces of this personal puzzle together , we never learn enough about the man to feel much empathy for him .  his emotional life before the story begins is an essential clue that remains withheld .  the same can easily be said for every other character in the film , of which there are too many .  juliette binoche's nurse comes as close as this film gets to an emotional heart .  at least we learn early on that she is scarred by the deaths of those close to her , and so we understand why she is eager to escape the company of her comrades in order to seek refuge in the convalescence of a mysterious , disfigured , dying stranger .  even this information is imparted so quickly and in such cursory fashion , however , that it verges on the comical .  with so many characters enjoying so little screen time , the film's 160 minutes can be taxing .  yet there is something so captivating about the sensibility behind the camera that i couldn't help but feel that greatness was in the air .  hints of it were everywhere -- in a man who hates ownership but wants desperately to possess his lover ; in ancient cave paintings of swimmers copied casually by a modern-day swimmer in the sahara ; in the way the shifting sands of time obliterate everything more completely than a world war .  there is enough latent meaning to supply college film students with paper topics for years .  but ultimately the emotional truths writer-director anthony minghella was grasping for were never revealed .  in the end , i was left with the impression that i had witnessed quite an oxymoron : a haunting bore .  bore is perhaps too strong a word .  but after drinking in the rich production values , the cup remains only slightly over half-full . 
neg@  " the animal " is a marginally inspired comedy that only manages to lumber along , generating just enough momentum to keep it from stalling .  it's clunky and slow , like watching an 18-wheeler trying to accelerate up a hill .  there are certainly better things you can do with your time .  actually , if you've seen the trailer , then you already know the plot and have seen its funniest moments .  the story centers on bland marvin ( rob schneider ) , who is an evidence clerk at the local police department that yearns to be a real officer .  but he's afflicted with loser-itis .  dogs attack him , neighbors torment him , children bully him , and his co-workers ignore him .  truthfully , with his bad haircut ( seemingly modeled after weird al yankovic , little richard , and giant poodles ) and his unenthusiastic demeanor , we'd probably throw tomatoes at him just for fun .  this is actually bad because you can't like a character if you can't develop sympathy for him .  we never do , and it may be just as well that he drives off a cliff and plummets to the canyon floor .  however , marvin is found by an eccentric doctor ( michael caton ) who uses a radical and experimental procedure to save him , implanting our doofus with various animal parts and organs .  as a result , marvin develops heightened senses and increased agility and speed .  he can smell drugs hidden anywhere on a body , swim with the speed of a dolphin , and can run as fast as a cheetah .  imagine the comedic possibilities that arise from this operation .  with his enhanced abilities , he could now reap vengeance on all those who have shunned him .  however , the spirit of the film takes a raunchy turn , and instead , marvin spends most of his time trying to subdue or satiate his voracious appetite and his animalistic , sexual urges .  goats beware !  he also chases cats , urinates to mark his territory , or growls at his enemies .  what he should've done was stick his head in the sand like an ostrich .  equally tenuous is its other running joke , which involves one of his friends ( guy torry ) who constantly complains that everyone is treating him too nicely because he's black .   " it's reverse racism , " he declares as he blows smoke into the faces of strangers but none of them says anything .  this element doesn't work the first time it's mentioned , and it becomes increasingly trite with every recurrence .  you don't have to be as wise as an owl to realize that " the animal " is tame .  if there's any reason to see this film , it's to see colleen haskell who makes her big screen debut .  remember her ?  she was voted off in week 11 of the 13-week program , " survivor . "  here , she plays marvin's sunny love interest .  while her role required very little actual acting , she seemed very comfortable ( even when marvin licks the side of her face like a lapping dog . . . yuck ! ) .  with her adorable disposition , radiant smile , and playful innocence , she could be a meg ryan in the making .  it's too bad that she's in such a mediocre offering 
pos@ the sheer horrific audacity of the nazi plan to exterminate the jews of europe is almost incomprehensible .  people may make documentaries about it for another hundred years and still not understand the organized , methodical hatred .  five concentration camp survivors from the last days of world war ii tell their stories in the last days , the first documentary from steven spielberg's survivors of the shoah visual history foundation .  the five interviewees are linked by their hungarian ancestry .  as the introduction explains , even as germany started to lose the war , the nazis stepped up their extermination of the jews in europe .  in 1944 , hungary had the last big population of jews within germany's reach , and they became the last target of hitler's " final solution . "  each of the five tells his or her story .  their stories are intercut chronologically , starting from normal life in pre-war hungary .  they recall the nazi invasion of hungary , being sent to " work " camps and their realization that they were actually in death camps .  they recall their horrible , precarious lives in auschwitz and buchenwald ; the deaths of their family and friends ; their loss of hope .  each recalls his or her unfathomable , eventual liberation .  and finally , the last days shows their cathartic , pained , modern-day return to their old homes and the camps .  needless to say , their stories are horrifying , amazing , and emotionally draining .  by themselves , the stories would be forceful testaments , but by cutting them in parallel , their impact is multiplied by five .  the last days is a talking-heads style documentary -- it's mostly pictures of people telling their stories , intercut with period photographs and newsreel footage .  in this kind of movie it's almost impossible to get archival pictures from the same time and place being discussed on-screen , but director james moll made a better effort than most at finding specific , or at least relevant , images to go with his subjects' narration .  the liner notes ( one of the many nice features of this dvd ) indicate that there is some never-before-seen historical footage in the last days .  it's not clear which scene it is .  it could be one of two that i hadn't seen before , both powerful .  one is rare color footage , shot by an american , of piles of victims in cattle cars .  there is something jarring , something unsettling about seeing the pictures in color , when so much of the footage from world war ii is in black and white .  another segment shows walking skeletons ; survivors who are so starved that they hardly look human anymore .  there has been a glut of holocaust movies and i was skeptical that a new documentary would have anything new to say .  but by focusing on hungarian jews during the last days of the war , moll told a specific part of the story in a new way , in greater detail .  and i'm glad he did because his careful filmmaking stands up well compared to other movies on the same subject .  the transfer to dvd is rich and beautiful .  x-mozilla-status : 0009f words for a holocaust documentary , but some of the interviews take place in europe in late spring , when skies are blue and trees are green .  also , the movie was shot on 35mm film ( and not video ! ) ,  so the richness and detail are impeccable .  the dvd's features are plentiful and well-chosen .  there is a theatrical trailer for the movie , which is a great introduction to the subject matter .  there are about fifty still photos , both from the production crew and from the private collections of the survivors .  also , the disc has two complete versions of the movie ( widescreen and full screen ) , both on the same side .  one of the more interesting dvd features is an outtake segment for each of the survivors ( plus one for the crew ) .  you'd think outtakes would be inappropriate in a holocaust documentary , but they're not bloopers .  instead , they are solid , moving segments that were probably cut from the film only for length .  one of them continues a confrontation that was only touched on lightly in the film .  renee firestone ( one of the five ) spoke on camera with dr . hans m ? nch , a german doctor who ran the medical clinic at auschwitz .  firestone was aggressive , questioning the doctor about what his children thought .  the doctor was evasive and clearly uncomfortable .  another of the outtakes showed bill basch saying a prayer for his dead friends at auschwitz .  he ends his prayer by saying " . . . forgive me for surviving . "  it's ambitious to shoot a documentary on 35mm film .  it's ambitious to make it on a subject that has saturated cable , television , and movies .  it's ambitious to make it 54 years after the events it covers .  but the last days handles all these potential obstacles very well .  it's only fitting that the dvd , with its wealth of interesting and relevant features , would also be ambitious and successful . 
neg@ robin williams has the rarest of gifts : the ability to rise above the most inept material and suffuse it with his irreverent style .  overwhelmingly , his worst films are pleasantly diverting at worst and enjoyable at best ( with the notable exception of flubber ) .  so when i , the one person who has refused to abandon him despite patch adams , tell you that not even williams can save his latest project , you know it's in trouble .  jakob the liar is a confused , muddled little movie ; a generically " uplifting " film with a fundamental contradiction : the message it delivers is depressing as opposed to inspiring and the movie doesn't realize it .  williams plays jakob haim , a jew imprisoned in a polish ghetto during world war ii .  one night he wanders outside after curfew and is promptly sent to the office of a high-ranking german officer for his punishment .  jakob gets off easy and he gets to hear approximately 30 seconds of a radio broadcast .  the announcement ( in english , but punctuated by a triumphant " heil hitler ! " ) is that russian troops are only miles away from jakob's ghetto .  liberation ! he thinks .  the next day , jakob tells the news to his closest friend , a volatile prize fighter named misha ( liev schreiber ) , who despite being sworn to secrecy passes the message along .  soon , it is a common assumption in the ghetto that jakob has a radio hidden in his home -- a crime punishable by death .  this is absurdly false , but the more jakob tells the people of the ghetto this , the more convinced they become that he is abreast of the latest developments in the war that is to decide their fate .  the danger , of course , is that the germans allegedly have informants throughout the ghetto , and rumors about the radio can get out and put jakob in great danger .  in a curiously irrelevant subplot , jakob finds a 11-year old girl who has separated from her parents and decides to hide her in his small home .  apparently he is afraid that she will be discovered , and goes to great length to make sure of that -- just why the idea frightens him is never made clear .  he and the girl build an uninvolving , generic relationship that never goes anywhere and is as irrelevant at the end as it was in the beginning .  the moral of the story is that hope is the best medicine .  but jakob the liar forgets that the hope that jakob brings to his ghetto is false .  such hope inevitably leads to expectations of its realization and when those expectations aren't met , the results are far worse than if there was no hope .  that's the film's biggest detriment : it is based on a false assumption and thus comes off as painfully false .  it's never moving because it doesn't give us anything to be moved by .  jakob the liar fails to tug any heartstrings which destroys its purpose for existing .  robin williams doesn't inject the film with life , as a matter of fact , he seems a little out of it , as if crippled by his fake accent .  he is stragely unenthusiastic ; his character is one who spreads hope but his performance is lifeless , hopeless .  not since good will hunting has he abandoned his signature style to this extent ; this isn't the robin williams we know and love .  in good will hunting he became a serious actor and won an oscar for it .  here , he is more of a wannabe serious actor ; an impostor .  jakob the liar will be compared with last year's life is beautiful because it is being marketed as a " holocaust comedy " .  it's not a comedy .  it tries , sometimes , but it rarely works .  is it a melodrama ?  a war movie ?  a character study ?  no , no , and no .  jakob the liar is the kind of movie that can't be placed into a category ; not because it covers so many different genres but because it fails at just about every one it attempts . 
pos@ a miracle of filmmaking , " some like it hot " is a brilliant film , and maybe the foremost example of slapstick comedy brought to screen with clever sight gags and plot twists .  it is the pinnacle of writer-director billy wilder's career , a stunning feat considering the vast catalogue of films he had helped make .  jerry ( lemmon ) and joe ( curtis ) are two stage musicians who go from gig to gig , trying to earn enough money to feed themselves .  one night , as they're playing at a banned prohibition speakeasy , the place is raided .  as it turns out , the owner , spats columbo ( george raft ) was ratted out by toothpick charlie ( george e . stone ) .  several weeks later , on valentine's day , jerry and joe go to a garage to pick up a car and end up witnessing a gangland murder of charlie by columbo in a parking garage .  eager to escape , the duo are forced to take a job in florida with all expenses paid .  the only catch . . its a girls band .  so josephine ( curtis ) and daphne ( lemmon ) , make their way onto the train and go to florida .  on the way there , they meet sugar kane ( monroe ) , a bombshell singer who is looking for love .  jerry and joe immediately fall for the singer , but there's two problems : 1 ) they're in drag , and 2 ) millionaire osgood fielding ( joe e . brown ) falls madly in love with daphne .  what follows in pure hysteria , still complicated further by the arrival of spats columbo to florida for the " italian opera lovers festival " .  tony curtis is hysterical as joe/josephine , especially in his preposterous attempts to woo sugar .  marilyn monroe , in a wonderfully comic performance , is sugar , providing incredible timing and sex appeal , along with true sincerity .  the scenes , however , are all stolen by either brown or lemmon .  lemmon is hysterical as daphne .  cast as the less rational one , lemmon's performance is ridiculously crazy , it is disorder in the style all billy wilder's .  brown is particularly hilarious as osgood , as we are treated to the finest kind of comedic irony .  he manages to use lemmon's ingenious performance as a springboard for an even loonier performance as a completely eccentric millionaire .  every set-piece is flawless , as wilder brilliantly changes settings constantly , and uses every comic trick in the book to make his picture .  wilder's script is stunning , as he carefully combines gangsters , cross-dressing , romance , sex , music , gender roles , and social taboos in a riotous blend of wit and oddball craziness .  wilder manages to create scenes of utter hysteria , so pitch-perfect that the audience is dying of laughter with the last comic piece , the final line of this absolutely incredible film .  wilder's is dead wrong when he says nobody's perfect : billy wilder is , especially when he makes something this disastrously funny .  nobody's perfect but billy wilder . 
neg@ the general's daughter is a heartless , absurd film , a movie so hopelessly dedicated to its inane plot that it forgets entirely about its own characters .  director simon west treats issues like rape and sexual fetish with ham-handed obscenity , creating a film that banks almost entirely on exploitation and offensive pseudo-depth .  what's worse is that the movie is haphazardly glued together by two characters who are neither interesting nor sympathetic -- the ridiculous story requires them to do unbelievable things in the interest of reaching a dark conclusion in a sudden rain storm .  john travolta finds himself in the middle of the mess , playing warrant officer paul brenner ; brenner is assigned to find the murderer and rape of captain elizabeth campbell ( leslie stefanson ) , daughter of general joe campbell ( james cromwell ) .  brenner is teamed up with ex-spouse sarah sunderland ( madeline stowe ) , and they check out all the suspects on the base , including elizabeth's mentor , colonel moore ( james woods ) .  soon , it becomes apparent that elizabeth was into kinky sexual stuff , but the question comes down to why -- and , of course , who .  ebert's law of the economy of characters can be applied here ; one interesting thing i noted is that not only are all the characters suspects at some point ( including the two protagonists ) , but almost all of them end up directly intertwined with the story .  perhaps i should have issued a spoiler alert before mentioning that , but it's painfully obvious from the beginning that everyone in the film is hiding something .  on a story level , the general's daughter is ineptly constructed .  the film , adapted by christopher bertolini and william goldman from nelson demille's novel ( which was apparently based on a true story ) , plods along to its conclusion , filling in the blanks with stale , unrealistic dialogue and " shocking " plot developments .  having not read the novel , it's difficult to determine if these problems are the fault of the adapters or the original author , but i suppose they all are guilty to some degree .  scene after scene stumbles with pointless insincerity ; minutes after finding the dead young woman , brenner and sunderland engage in sarcastic dialogue , which includes endless strings of forced lines .   ( sunderland actually asks brenner , " why was she killed ? "  to which i would have answered , " if i knew , then the movie would already be over . " )  only after we've spent twenty minutes or so with these characters do we learn that they have a sordid history together ; this angle , though apparently present to develop their characters , is never explored .  not that it really matters , since the characters consistently do ludicrous things for no other reason than to drive the plot .  in one scene , sunderland is attacked by a man in a mask .  she sees one of his rings , and she and brenner find the man later that day based on the ring .  instead of questioning him like as they would a real suspect , they take him to brenner's houseboat , beat him up , and pour hot coffee in his lap .  this scene really pushed me over the edge , not because it's gratuitous and mean-spirited , but because it illustrates the film's complete disregard for the characters and the audience .  it was impossible for me to feel anything for these people beyond this scene , mostly because nothing they do comes as a surprise .  i realized that these constructs on screen aren't actually characters , but devices present only to serve the story .  this would have been bad enough without the west's need to hose his movie down in tasteless images of rape and sexual misconduct .  compelling films about sexual crimes don't spend a lot of time on rape flashbacks , and they certainly don't show as much skin and sweat as a typical pornographic picture .  these scenes are not the least bit powerful ; on the contrary , they're intended simply to provide the audience with the necessary resentment for the villain , whomever that may turn out to be .  in addition , the movie treats sexual fetishes -- and sadomasochism in particular -- as if it's a perversion of everything we know to be pure .  this standpoint is certainly allowed , but only in accompaniment with well-developed themes to back it up .  as it is , the film forgets that a lot of people have sexual fetishes , and that putting on a pair of handcuffs does not make a person insane .  perhaps the only positive elements in the general's daughter are a couple of the performances .  james woods has a few terrific scenes , and plays his role with sharp , witty subtlety .  i also liked james cromwell , mostly because he comes across as slightly sympathetic despite the obvious intent of west to make him villainous .  nonetheless , these performances are undermined entirely by the dreary , obligatory atmosphere and the senseless neglect of characterization .  the general's daughter is the worst kind of hollywood film -- it pretends to have a soul , to be of strict moral code , when in fact it has nothing more than a group of cardboard cut-outs force-feeding the audience a toxic landfill of plot contrivances and one-sided moral judgments . 
pos@ anna and the king strides onto the screen in full regalia , wearing a brilliant suit of sumptuous landscapes , deep , vibrant colors and an epic storyline .  it's true beauty comes from it's subtle ruminations on the politics of power , whether it's between governments , or the interplay between a man and a woman .  anna ( jodie foster ) is a widowed british schoolteacher with a touch of wanderlust trying to grasp her quicksilver feelings concerning the recent death of her husband .  with son in tow , she takes the employ of king mongkut ( chow yun-fat ) to tutor his son in the english language .  mongkut sees the strength of the british and correctly surmises that his country's future lies in opening itself up to the ways of the western world .  anna function is to help provide that link .  the core of the film , of course , deals with the blossoming love between anna and mongkut as it attempts to germinate in the unfriendly soil of a shifting political climate .  foster plays anna with equal parts clenched jaw and wide-eyed wonder .  she is assertive , yet , respectful of the king as she initially tries to impose her western sensibilities upon him .  it is one of foster's strongest performances since silence of the lambs in a role she could not have played earlier in her career .  she brings a mature self- awareness and determination that might not have come across from a younger foster .  it's a joy to watch her cagily bargain for her own measure of influence within the realm of mongkut's monarchy .  when she makes her entrance into a politically charged banquet mid-film , she exudes a hypnotic beauty that is deepened by her textured performance .  chow-yun fat's king mongkut is every measure of foster's anna , perhaps even more so .  this is the chow yun-fat that hong kong cinema has been in love with for nearly twenty years .  he is imposing , yet vulnerable , playful , but stern .  it is an impressively assured and nuanced performance .  precious time is stolen from the movie's 155 minutes running time by an unengaging subplot involving one the king's concubines ( bai ling ) and her love of a commoner .  it strikes with the subtlety of siam's fabled white elephant as it stomps through the leisurely paced story .  some may be put off by the action filled climax of the movie .  although a bit inconsistent in tone from the rest of the film , it fits within the established subplot of a perceived siege by neighboring burma , a country backed by the british .  anna and the king transcends being a predictable , traditional love story by avoiding mawkishness .  it shows a seduction of intelligence .  ever mindful of each other's positions , anna and king mongkut negotiate a maze of social customs , conflicting world views and lost loved ones to connect on a level that ultimately proves deeply satisfying , if not achingly bittersweet . 
neg@ the happy bastard's quick movie review  wild wild west  a better name for this movie might've been " wild wild waste " .  warner bros . , in an attempt to get their own men in black style of movie , had managed to lasso in some big names ( actor will smith and director barry sonnenfeld , the duo behind mib's success ) in order to get their own fourth of july blockbuster , a contemporary big-screen update to the classic western/sci-fi series the wild wild west starring robert conrad .  but somehow , they ran into a problem along the way .  they were so busy trying to fill specific roles that they forgot one in general that would've made all the difference- a story writer .  wild wild west's story and script was compiled by six different people , rather than just the one who put the brilliant touches on men in black , ed solomon .  if warner bros . had gotten him , the movie would've possibly been five times better than what it is .  heck , ten times .  as is , however , the story and screenplay is a mess , filled with dead laughs , enough racist and sex jokes to make even will cringe as he's performing them , and a complete lack of chemistry that made the tv show work so well .  here's the story : us army member james west ( will smith ) teams up with creative genius artemus gordon ( kevin kline ) to take on a ruthless villain by the name of arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh ) , whose lower half was blown off during the civil war , leaving him to roll around in a steam-controlled wheelchair .  they catch onto a plot of his involving a superweapon that can basically be considered an 80-foot tarantula ( although it looks bigger than that ) , hellbent on destroying anything in its path .  as i said , the way the script unfolds is a complete mess .  but the acting doesn't help either .  kevin kline is miserable as gordon , failing to display even a smidgeon of care as he did in the 1985 western silverado .  smith seems to be having a better time as west , although he's not nearly as charming as he was in mib .  branagh goes excessively over the top as the villain , perhaps to the point where we can't even stand to look at him or his strange beard .  and salma hayek is along for the ride to search for her missing father , but mostly she exists just for sexual attention .  her acting is barely passable , but what a " breath of fresh ass " .  director barry sonnenfeld isn't of great help either .  even though he shows some good creativity at some points , his overall urgency for directing is lost .  it's as if he feels he's directing a tv movie , a big no-no when you're helming what's supposed to be a big-screen hit .  last but not least , there are huge gaps of logic that are just plain unacceptable .  at one point , smith defies gravity when first boarding kline's train .  he jumps on the back , gets launched straight up in the air , and somehow manages to land three cars ahead on the train- while it's still in motion !  also , he seems to be strangely comfortable talking about racism in front of a lynch mob , particularly considering the fact that his family was killed by the likes of such folks .  last but not least , why is he still making kissing faces when he knows he's not kissing a woman as he's looking through a peephole at the enemy ? !  the only saving grace for wild wild west come mostly in the form of special effects .  the huge mechanical spider is a technical marvel , very authentic looking and considerable to the creativity of the show .  there's also a good sequence involving metal magnet neckbraces and spinning saw blades , but , again , a logic question comes into play regarding their polarity .  i would say sit back and have a good time with wild wild west , but it really isn't possible .  if the racist and sex jokes don't bother you , the performances will .  if the performances don't bother you , the story will .  if the story doesn't bother you , the racist and sex jokes will .  there's no end to the vicious circle .  go rent men in black instead and pretend smith and tommy lee jones are wearing cowboy hats .  you'll have a better time .  if you do go , keep an eye out for robert conrad in a role as president grant .  i bet he wishes he were somewhere else . . . 
pos@ one of kyle mclachlan's earlier cinematic features , this movie has had an obvious influence on such films as the terminator ( 8/10 ) , species ( 7/10 ) and the more recent , fallen with denzel washington .  plot : a science-fiction picture set in modern times , this thriller follows the exploits of an " entity " from outer space , who likes to inhabit human bodies , use them up until they are completely worn out , and then switch over to the next available receptacle .  fbi agent ( mclachlan ) and local top cop ( nouri ) are charged with the capture of this " thing " before it's too late .  critique : this fast-paced , urban equivalent of the thing ( 8/10 ) , checks in on all cylinders for ultra-violence ( god knows how many people died in this movie ) , action and an overall rock 'n roll attitude .  then again , how can you go wrong with an " alien " that likes the ferraris , guns , heavy metal music and sexy girls ? !  granted , the plot isn't the most elaborate of tales ( alien bad , find alien , kill alien ) , but i can honestly say that i was never once bored during the viewing of this entire picture .  i wouldn't recommend it to those who don't like car chases , murders , and bland acting , but for all the rest of you out there , those who enjoy putting away their brains every now and again , sitting back , slamming back some salsa'd nachos , and relishing in the cheeze some call film . . .  have a blast ! !  two scenes to watch for are both within the first ten minutes of this gore-fest .  the opening sequence is one of the most rockin' scenes to open any action movie , and the subsequent extra-terrestrial " transformation " is another eye-catcher .  even the late 80's special effects were okay .  followed by the hidden ii in 1994 .  little known facts : this film was kyle maclachlan's first non-david lynch foray into the world of feature films .  his first two movie appearances were in lynch's wretched dune ( 4/10 ) and the sensational blue velvet ( 8 . 5/10 ) 
neg@ bob the happy bastard's quickie review :  the odd couple ii  grumpy old men , it ain't .  hell , my fellow americans , it ain't .  walter matthau and jack lemmon team up again for an even more worn out vehicle than any of their films over the past few years .  odd couple ii feels terribly generic , where in the first movie , made thirty one years ago , feels like a wonderful tale .  that's like repackaging campbell's soup in a generic food can , really .  how writer neil simon could've made such a horrible mistake in screen writing is beyond me .  throughout the movie , i really didn't laugh once .  honestly .  i mean , there were dumb situations , yeah , like the cropduster who let these old geezers have it without any notice , but they just really didn't seem funny to me .  and that car rolling off the cliff ?  the only way i would've seen humor in that is if they were still in it .  and the ending gets all super-mushy , too .  in the final twenty minutes or so , lemmon meets a girl he thinks is the one , then loses her ; matthau talks to his son ( a wasted jonathan silverman ) about his amrriage to lemmon's daughter ; and , of course , lemmon and matthau have another roomie situation on their hands .  ooh , i really gave a lot away there , i'm sure .  consider it a hospitable gester , you won't waste your time renting this muck . 
pos@ director : penelope spheeris ( decline of western civilization ii - the : metal years , dudes , & suburbia )  cast : mike myers ( wayne campbell ) , dana carvey ( garth algar ) , : rob lowe ( benjamin oliver ) , tia carrere ( cassandra )  summary : wayne and garth have a public access show called " wayne's : world . "  the show is a underground hit , until benjamin : oliver comes onto the scene .  benjamin wants to turn the : show into a big hit nationwide , possibly destroying the : essence of " wayne's world " in the process .  [expectations - medium]  long review ===========  i must admit being a bit reluctant going into this film .  i didn't believe that they ( mike myers and dana carvey ) could hold it up for an hour and a half , i figured that perhaps the first half-hour would be great , and the rest would be " fluff . "  however , i was really surprised about how well they were able to keep the laughs going for the virtually the whole film , with the exception of the ending .   ( which i won't discuss for obvious reasons , but it's not * that * bad . )  story : the plot was quite thin , but it really wasn't that noticeable , because of the rapid-fire jokes that myers wrote in .  alot of the jokes are very similar to hot shots ! , in being very " parodyish . "   ( okay , bad term . )  extremely witty throughout , although ( as in hot shots ) it got a bit repetitive in the middle .  acting : as in many comedies , the acting isn't really * that * important .  however , myers turns in a good performance as wayne , playing the character perfectly , ( although i still liked him better back on much music , in a more " canadian " type of mode . )  carvey is okay as garth , but he lacks the spark myers puts into wayne .  tia carrere is mediocre as cassandra , playing it very stilted .  lowe is fine as ben oliver , but is nothing to write home about .  without a doubt , this movie is mike myers all the way .  direction : spheeris is a classic " music " movie director , making dudes , and decline of western civilization ii -- the metal years .   ( she also directed the boys next door , which is different , to say the least . )  she is very capable , knows how direct a comedy , the correct camera movements it instill laughs , etc . one of the better jobs i can remember for a comedy .  overall : i would suggest to anyone that likes snl's skits to go see this film in the theatres .  however , my personal opinion , as in most comedies , is that they work just as well on video .  you definately have to be fan of music , and all forms of media in general to enjoy this film .  without a doubt , this is the best comedy so far this year .  it'll make tons 'o' dough for everyone involved .  let's just hope they make a thousand sequels .  [sorry , i had to get the lame joke in . . .  forgive me . ] 
neg@ a disappointing biography about the homosexual relationship of two famous 19th century french poets .  the film managed to remove all the poetry from the poets and instead concentrated on their abrasive personalities .  the result is merely an academic exercise , leaving an emotional vacuum that it couldn't build on to show them as the poets they were .  on paper , this shouldn't have been so terrible -- it had a talented director in agnieszka holland ( " the secret garden " ) , a proven screenwriter in christopher hampton ( dangerous liaisons ) , and a capable cast .  but the film was done in by its inept script , the unappealing way the film was directed , and the miscasting of leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud .  i found his performance to be the most risible one in the film , with him acting more like a teenage brat than a young genius , spouting obsenities without giving a hint that a true poet lies behind that facade .  he , especially , looked bad because david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so good despite the turgid dialogue that was thrust upon him and how thin a character he was forced to be .  but when the two of them were together , it looked like a mismatch .  leonardo's rimbaud only made the young poet look petulant and crude , yet we know from rimbaud's poetry , that he must have had something going for him because his poetry was awe inspiring .  the film opens in post-revolutionary france in 1871 , the 16-year-old rimbaud has sent the established symbolist poet verlaine a letter with his poems .  he accepts verlaine's praises and invitation to be a house guest in his splendid paris home , and rimbaud leaves his sullen farm in rural charleville .  once there , rimbaud is disappointed in the bourgeoisie household , has an immediate conflict with verlaine's busty 18-year-old wife mathilde ( romane ) , and finds to his regret that the drunken verlaine loves his rich wife for her body and that he lives off her family's money , even though he has nothing else in common with her .  when verlaine states , " poets can learn from one another , " rimbaud replies in a haughty tone , " only if they're bad poets . "  he will continue to treat the older poet like dirt for the rest of their relationship .  verlaine proves to be weak-willed , beating his wife regularly , and plays just as despicable a character as rimbaud .  when mathilde's father kicks rimbaud out of the house , verlaine finds him in a rooming house and the two become lovers .  it's a real downer to watch this story unfold into a series of obnoxious behavior patterns on the part of the two poets , which leads them to traveling together and mathilde asking for a divorce .  in brussels , verlaine gets arrested for sodomy and spends two years in jail .  while rimbaud becomes angered at the literary world and never writes another poem after he becomes 19 .  he instead goes to north africa and becomes an adventurer and a gun-runner , and after ten years there , comes home with a tumor on his knee and dies a changed man at the age of 37 .  the hopeless relationship between the two is what the picture covers in detail and that was not very satisfying .  the film ends on a whimper . . . with  verlaine talking with rimbaud's sister about her brother and the poems of his he still possesses , which the sister wants destroyed so as not to embarrass the family or ruin the name of her deceased brother if published .  this film was especially annoying because rimbaud's poems are filled with a visionary tenseness that are not even approached in this film , as the film only manages to skim the surface of the lives of these poets and completely ignores the value of their poetry .  i have no idea what the filmmaker was trying to say in this film , but whatever it was , it just didn't work .  it certainly didn't bring any light into understanding what rimbaud meant to modern poetry and why he earned the reputation as the so-called father of modern poetry . 
pos@ carolco pictures and dutch director paul verhoeven ( robocop ) came together to create the 1990 mega hit that is total recall .  the film is a masterpiece of sets , action , and special effects .  action and science fiction just don't get any better than this !  the story involves a construction worker named douglas quaid ( arnold schwarzenegger ) who lives on earth with his beautiful wife lori ( sharon stone ) .  quaid is obsessed with mars and decides to go with the second best choice ; a brain implant ( fake memory ) of a two week vacation on mars .  while being implanted a memory cap is triggered and the doctors realize that quaid's memory has previously been erased .  now the people who did it are after him .  quaid must find out who he really is and why these people want him dead .  the plot unfolds at a rapid pace explaining itself through great action , special effects , and twist after mind-boggling twist .  it grabs you and never lets go !  this film is a winner from beginning to end .  the plot is superb ; combining the best elements of science fiction and psychological mystery to create a rip-roaring saga .  schwarzenegger gives his best performance ever , and the supporting cast is good too .  the action and stunts are terrific .  the sets are huge and elaborate with a lot of attention payed to detail .  the music and sound effects are perfect for the film and really add a certain level of impact to the action .  the make-up effects by rob bottin ( the howling , the thing , and robocop ) are top notch , not to mention extremely outlandish .  the visual effects by dream quest ( the abyss ) and industrial light and magic ( star wars trilogy , jurassic park , and terminator 2 ) are phenomenal !  the visuals had such a state of the art " slickness " that they won an oscar .  of course the film isn't always realistic ; it's more fiction than science .  for example , it is true that a body won't explode in the vacuum of space but in total recall they do .  who cares ?  it's a movie .  movies are supposed to entertain .  and in my opinion this film achieves an entertainment level in film that is so terrific , it may be impossible to beat . 
neg@ saw an advanced screening of the movie sniper last night , and i have to say i wasn't too impressed .  this film is about an expert marine sniper , played by tom berenger , who is teamed with a hot-shot-young-no-experience-never-killed-a-man new partner to take out some drug-kingpins and military strong men in panama .  sound cliche ?  that's only the beginning .  billy zane ( memphis belle ) played the rookie , and never seemed to get a handle on his character .  he was so contrary and pig-headed in the beginning , you just wanted to smack him .  then he goes " crazy " from the pressure , but seems to immediately snap out of it .  i'm not sure if the blame should lie with the directing , editing , scriptwriting , or acting . . .  but it didn't all come together .  i think berenger is a pretty good actor , and he looked great in the part , covered in camo , face painted , stalking through the jungle with his high-power rifle . . .  but once again , his character was given some pretty bad dialogue , and didn't react too logically to many of the situations .  there was very little logical development in these characters .  my biggest problem with this film was it's tendency to put these two snipers in as * many * inches-from-death situations as possible .  they began to resemble g . i . joes , the greatest american hero .  and of course their almost supernatural accuracy with their guns was called upon to get them out of far too many close calls .  now a lot of movies are stamped out of this mold , in fact that's what made die hard so much fun : the super-hero avenger type .  so some will enjoy the action hero heroics , but i didn't think it fit with the nice tension that was built up in the earlier scenes , and the " real life " feel of covert operations in panama .  a word must be said on the camera work , much of it was very nice .  the jungles of panama ( or their stand-ins in this case ) formed a very picturesque background . . .  and the drama of speeding bullets was captured using some nice trick photography .  many have seen the slowed down " bullet-cam " following the projectile to its target .  this was used well in the beginning to show the feverish nightmares berenger gets when remembering the moment of the kill .  it was dramatic when used in flashback . . . but  it seems the director liked the technique so much he started inserting these shots ( pardon the pun ) into the real time action . . . then  it just seemed silly .  all in all , not a real dog : there is some nice action , good atmosphere , and pretty photography .  but the plot is pretty lame , the acting didn't form a cohesive whole , and far too much thisclosefromdeath heroics . 
pos@ vannesa kensington : `austin , do you smoke after sex ? ' austin powers : `i don't know baby , i've never looked ! '  and so begins our journey into the most anticipated sequel of the summer season .  austin powers 2 , the sequel to the sleeper hit of 1997 , is filled to the brim with uproarious sight gags and lurid toilet jokes that will make you keel over with hilarity .  the mind of mike myers is obviously a very bizarre place .  myers returns as the swinging 60's spy and his arch-nemesis , the bald headed dr . evil , who is given much of the spotlight here .  there's an early scene in which dr . evil and his son scott ( seth green ) appear on a jerry springer segment entitled `my dad is evil and wants to take over the world' , hosted by springer himself .  most of these talk-show gags , spoofing everything from oprah to regis and kathie lee , are no longer as funny as they once were .  happily , this is an exception , especially when a fight breaks out between dr . evil and the other guests .   ( sample dialogue- `come back here you mother #!%$^ ! !  you want a piece of me ? ' )  the audience was in stitches .  there are many good things about this sequel .  dr . evil is now assisted by mini-me ( verne troyer ) , a pint-sized clone who is the result of an experiment gone awry .  mini-me is the most perfect new character that any fan could ask for , and troyer does a terrific job of mimicking everything that his big brother does , pinkie and all .  mindy sterling returns as frau farbissina , evil's loud-mouth assassin sidekick , and here we are treated to a brief romantic liaison between the two in an underground bedroom chamber .  this works surprisingly well .  afterward , there's even a meeting at the coffee machine , where their awkwardness is expressed in a scene you would expect in any normal office environment .  oh , yes . . .  the plot .  after a short honeymoon with vanessa kensington ( elizabeth hurley ) that goes disastrously wrong , powers is back on the case to thwart the diabolical plans of dr . evil .  in the original , the subject of the day was cryogenic freezing that enabled the characters to hop between two time periods .  here , it's time travel .  dr . evil has this crazy plan to steal austin's mojo ( the source of his sexual powers ) , so he jumps through a time portal back into 1969 when powers is still is his freezing chamber .  there , he employs a grotesque 600-pound scottish assassin named fat bastard ( also myers ) to commandeer the mojo , so that our future hero is left completely shagless .  meanwhile , austin is informed of evil's wrong-doing by basil exposition ( michael york ) , and is supplied with his very own time-traveling device in the form of a volkswagen beetle .  once back in 1969 , powers meets a foxy cia operative named felicity shagwell ( heather graham ) , and learns of dr . evil's plans to destroy washington dc with a lazer on the moon .  in one of the many uproarious jabs at star wars , evil calls the moon base a `death star' .  if there ever was a movie that knew from the start it was a complete joke , it's austin powers : the spy who shagged me .  ap2 has many hilarious moments , much more so , than the original austin powers .  but what it doesn't have is the confident support system that the first boasted , and the jokes are now more scattershot and hit-and-miss .  while myers has a knack for delivering clever , inspired gags , he sometimes doesn't know when to call it quits .  the hilarious scene in the original involving mustafa ( will ferrell ) and his refusal to die is played out here in a disappointing and tired manner .  robert wagner , as dr . evil's #2 man , has only one scene early on in the film , where he lacks all the focus of the character .  one nice surprise is rob lowe , as the young #2 , who patterns wagner's voice and movements right down to a tee .  there are more recycled jokes from the predecessor , including kristen johnston as ivana humpalot ( an unfunny rendition of alotta fagina ) .  but myers has clearly put so much dedication into this project , and many bits are side-splittingly funny .  don't miss an extended visual gag in a tent , where the shadows leave much to the imagination . . . .  of the new characters , graham doesn't leave much of an impression .  her performance is merely okay , and she lacks the gung-ho enthusiasm that made elizabeth hurley so enjoyable before her .  and as for fat bastard . . .  well , he provides one or two hilarious moments , but all of the obesity jokes and bathroom talk go too far .  but my most severe complaint : mr . bigglesworth was only in one scene ! !  but , with gritted teeth , i managed to get over that .  this sequel will not leave fans disappointed ; it's more often than not a laugh riot .  and , i look optimistically to the future , where i foresee more installments to the austin powers collection .  if myers can up the quota of fresh ideas , we should be in store for much more .   ( c ) 1999 , jamey hughton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  jamey hughton ( 15 ) has written a weekly column in the starphoenix , saskatoon , sk since november , 1997 .  he was a 1999 writing finalist in the canadian ytv achievement awards . 
neg@ the 13th warrior reeks so badly of melodrama and poor acting that it carries a worst scent than a canine's least appetizing residue .  the best part of the film would be a close contest between the closing credits and a brief moment in the middle where the screen goes entirely white and you hope that the film has slipped and caught ablaze in the projector .  my vote goes for the ending credits , where you can start trying to put the awful experience behind you .  ibn fahdlan ( antonio banderas ) is an important official who is banished from his home for sleeping with another man's wife .  he encounters a group of norse warriors who convince him to join them on a mysterious journey to be taken by 13 men .  fahdlan is chosen as the 13th and last warrior in a moment that is so desperately overacted and overdone that numerous persons at the screening i attended broke out into laughter .  the movie proves to be a new low point for banderas , who's acting seems closer to that of his role as the lover and caretaker for a dying gay man in 1993's philadelphia , than that of a warrior .  in the film's supposed pay off scene , he exclaims " i was wrong , these are not men ! " ,  a line intended to be the most memorable quote of the production .  unfortunately , banderas delivers it in a fashion that makes chevy chase's career look like oscar material .  the film , based on michael crichton's best selling novel , eaters of the dead was shot under that name some three years ago , and after numerous rewrites not only does the dialogue seem completely phony , but the plot is incredibly difficult to follow .  at the same time , the 13th warrior makes you think about numerous questions .  questions like " why do the characters always have perfect lighting on them even when it is pitch dark ? " ,   " why does no one ever have blood cover both sides of their face , but rather just one side ? "  and finally , " will the manager give me a refund ? "  90 minutes into the 103 minute film , a man invites of the warriors " come with me , there is a woman who can help . "  unfortunately , there is nothing that could help this film .  the most appropriate ending would have been for the 13 men to join hands , form a chorus line , and break into a rendition of " springtime for hitler . " 
pos@ i remember making a pact , right after `patch adams' , to not be easily be suckered by movies dripping with sentimentality .  but darn it , `music of the heart' is just layered with feel-good material and bright characterizations .  it's hard to dislike a movie that uses such skill with it's manipulation .  in addition , it's also a terrific family film .  this is the true story of violin teacher roberta guaspari , who fought the school board to keep the musical program active in a handful of inner city harlem schools .  it could also be described as `mrs .  streep's opus' .  yes , meryl streep brings her dramatic clout to the demanding role of guaspari , and that brings both good news and bad .  out of the gate , possibly because of her distracting star power and the rushed writing , it is relatively difficult to identify with roberta's character and grasp her academic point-of-view .  she is very strict with her students , but what insight does that create into the story ?  slowly but surely , we begin to recognize the intentions of the character , and show admiration for the thoughtfulness and human feeling that streep has once again applied .  one thoroughly interesting fact about `music of the heart' lies with the unlikely presence in the director's chair : horror veteran wes craven .  after leaving an impression with the `scream' films and the original `nightmare on elm street' , craven has attempted a precarious cross-over to drama .  at first , his inexperience with the genre is fairly obvious , but as the film progresses craven finds a surprisingly comfortable niche with directing this material .  it doesn't carry the heart-warming courage of `mr .  holland's opus' , but `music of the heart' is casually assured and filled with little morsels of dramatic truth .  the tag team of streep and craven works better than you would anticipate .  yes , oscar could come calling once again for meryl streep , but it's the solid ensemble cast that makes `music of the heart' work .  angela bassett displays her usual forceful stamina as janet williams , the principal at an inner city school who initially doesn't hire roberta because of her lack of experience .  blue-eyed adian quinn is endearing , as always , playing a new love interest .  gloria estefan also delivers in the tiny role of a supportive second-grade teacher , and the three lead actresses together produce a flaming fireball of estrogenic force .  it's like a schoolteacher's version of `thelma and louise' , in a restrained but effective manner .  the movie tackles more issues than just guaspari's teaching of violin .  there's some powerful moments between roberta and her two sons , who must cope when their father leaves them for another woman .  in it's dramatic build-up , the movie manages to produce some authentic moments of feeling and warmth .  it's a good movie for anyone to see , although missing out on the experience would not be a life-altering decision .  it's commendable of wes craven to be attempting such a difficult cross-over , and also for achieving his intricate goal .  watching this heartfelt chick flick about morals and musical instruments , who may ask yourself : this is the guy who directed `scream' ?  of course , when the third installment of that series comes around in february 2000 ( with craven directing ) , you may find yourself wondering : this is the guy who directed `music of the heart' ?  mission accomplished , wes .  thankfully , there is no layer of artificial sentiment covering the film .  in it's entirety , it's a wholesome and agreeable movie for the whole family , despite the periodic flaws that surface every once in awhile .  the child actors are cute and perform up to par , even if some of their problems are clich ? d and predictable in the extreme .  the mother who doesn't want her son to be learning `white man's music' , the unexpected casuality . . .  basically everything is there .  it doesn't strike the perfect chord , but `music of the heart' is highly convincing .  the uplifting true story of roberta guaspari could have been told better , but `music of the heart' is still edifying enough to properly divulge her morals . 
neg@ godzilla is the ultimate culmination of the " who cares about plot " summer movie .  a loose remake of the 1954 " classic " japanese monster movie , godzilla , king of the monsters ( which is itself pretty thin in the story department ) , roland emmerich and dean devlin's big-budget lizard-stomps-manhattan disaster flick has been written with the brain dead in mind .  the script isn't just " dumbed down , " it's lobotomized .  godzilla lives and dies on special effects alone .  presumably , the primary target group for this film is teenage boys , the demographic most likely to shell out $7 repeatedly to see the same images of monster-instigated carnage .  that's not to say that females and other age groups are immune to the special effects seduction ; they're just not as readily susceptible .  this is the third straight movie in a row where emmerich and devlin have demonstrated that a mastery of computer-generated visuals is far more important for making money than the ability to write and direct for actors .  stargate was a financial success .  independence day was a runaway hit .  and , with godzilla already drowning in hype and merchandising tie-ins before it even opens , it's virtually guaranteed at least $100 million .  nice numbers for a film that could have been penned by a not-too-precocious grade school kid .  godzilla isn't completely without merit , although it is close .  there's a certain visceral thrill inherent in watching the giant lizard rip his way through manhattan , but it wears off quickly .  frankly , while the special effects are competent , they're not all that stunning .  there's nothing new here ; it's jurassic park meets aliens , with a little independence day thrown in for bad measure .  maybe it will require george lucas and his new star wars movie to take computer-generated visuals to the next level .  godzilla never really pushes the envelope , preferring to remain within a comfort zone .  the imagination of monster movies like king kong has been replaced by a crass , formulaic approach which disallows creativity .   ( how disturbing is it to know that godzilla has been chosen to close the 51st cannes film festival ? )  worst of all , godzilla isn't even exciting .  with the possible exception of a mildly enjoyable car chase near the end , there isn't a sequence in this film that raises the pulse .  even the scenes with dozens of aircraft attacking the monster are so devoid of tension and suspense that they are yawn-provoking .  independence day may have been dumb , but it was full of " adrenaline moments " capable of getting the audience involved in the action .  in this aspect of its production , as in so many others , godzilla is lacking .  actually , part of the problem is that we're never sure who we're supposed to be rooting for : the green monster with an attitude or the paper-thin humans trying to stop him .  the plot , such as it is , can be summed up rather simply .  after sinking a few ships and leaving some footprints on tropical islands , godzilla shows up in the big apple .  he does some of the usual tourist things : stops by madison square garden , visits the chrysler building , goes on a walk through central park , and takes the subway .  in the process , he knocks over a few buildings and steps on countless cabs , but he never has trouble with traffic jams .  on hand to stop him is an elite u . s . army unit , led by a slightly less-arrogant-than-usual military man ( kevin dunn ) and a biologist named nick tatopoulos , who has a theory about godzilla .  in his opinion , the big guy is actually a lizard grown to enormous proportions as a result of the radiation given off by french atomic bomb tests in the south pacific .  in nick's words , godzilla is " a mutated aberration ? an incipient creature ? the first of its kind . "  as luck would have it , nick's old girlfriend , audrey ( maria pitillo ) , is a reporter based at a new york tv station .  along with her cameraman friend , animal ( hank azaria ) , she decides to follow nick around as he trails godzilla .  then , just when the military has rejected nick's theory about why godzilla is in new york , a member of the french secret service ( jean reno ) recruits him for a special assignment .  instead of stomping around tokyo this time , godzilla has chosen new york city .  unfortunately , manhattan has been destroyed so many times in recent disaster movies ( independence day , deep impact , armageddon ) that it's becoming boring .  the whole tradition of monsters roaming around the city started with king kong , but the big ape was only about 30 feet tall .  he could climb the empire state building .  at ten times that height , godzilla would be more likely to knock it over .  godzilla contains a few lame attempts at humor .  there's an ongoing feud between animal and his wife that plays like sit-com material , an unfunny and repetitive gag about how no one can pronounce nick's last name properly , and a rather tame attack on film critics roger ebert and gene siskel .  both of the popular personalities have alter egos in the film : " ebert , " the mayor of new york , is played by michael lerner , and " gene " ( lorry goldman ) is his campaign manager .  ebert's re-election slogan is , not surprisingly , " thumbs up for new york . "  the siskel/ebert stuff is amusing the first time it's used , but , after a while , it grows tiresome .  and , although the " characters " don't serve any real purpose , they keep popping up .  godzilla is saddled with an unimpressive cast .  this is largely because emmerich doesn't want to risk a human performance upstaging his lizard .  that's not to say that matthew broderick and jean reno aren't capable of good performances ( both have done their share of solid acting in the past ) , but they aren't a-list names .  then again , considering the quality of the writing , even pacino and deniro would have been hard- pressed to shine .  maria pitillo ( dear god ) plays the love interest and hank azaria ( great expectations ) is on hand to present what is supposed to be comic relief .  ultimately , it doesn't really matter what i ( or any other critic , for that matter ) have to say about the movie .  tristar has assumed that godzilla , like all self-proclaimed summer event motion pictures , is pretty much critic-proof .  it may also be word-of-mouth-proof .  those who want to see the movie will see it no matter what i write or their friends say .  so , when i go on record to assert that godzilla is one of the most idiotic blockbuster movies of all time , it's like spitting into the wind .  emmerich and devlin are master illusionists , waving their wands and mesmerizing audiences with their smoke and mirrors .  it's probably too much to hope that some day , movie-goers will wake up and realize that they've been had . 
pos@ pulp fiction , quentin tarantino's anxiously awaited and superb follow-up to reservoir dogs , is absolutely and without a doubt progressing as one of the most talked about , loved , and hated films of all-time .  in all fairness , it should be noted that those who love this film greatly outnumber those who hate it .  as if reservoir dogs wasn't perfect , tarantino went ahead and improved on perfection by creating pulp fiction , a fast-paced , hard talking , roller coaster ride of a movie that combines violence and extraordinary dialogue in a seemingly perfect way .  every major character in this film is represented by a terrific acting performance by the actor .  to begin with , the two hit men : vincent vega ( john travolta ) and jules winnfield ( samuel l . jackson ) .  these two characters work together perfectly , and the performances by each actor are nearly perfect .  travolta , in fact , is still trying to get out of the vincent vega role .  if these two characters were not enough , there's the struggling boxer butch coolidge ( bruce willis ) , the two small-time criminals pumpkin ( tim roth ) and honey bunny ( amanda plummer ) , the big man in charge marsellus wallace ( ving rhames ) and his attractive young wife mia ( uma thurman ) , and the " problem solver " himself , the wolf ( harvey keitel ) .  these are just the major characters .  smaller roles , but equally terrific , are handed to jimmie ( quentin tarantino ) , a young married man who gets caught up in some serious gangster business , lance ( eric stoltz ) , the far-out drug dealer , as well as maynard ( duane whitaker ) and zed ( peter greene ) , two hillbillies who are the men " behind " ( no pun intended for those of you who have seen this ) a very disturbing scene towards the end of the film .  the film interweaves three stories that , at first , seem to be nothing alike but later prove to be very critical to each other .  the film begins with pumpkin and honey bunny in a small coffee shop discussing their recent robberies and hold-ups .  the two quickly decide to hold up the coffee shop , unknowing of what lies ahead .  after this , the film focuses for some time on vincent and jules and their hit man lifestyle .  utilizing the films unforgettable dialogue , the two men discuss such things as hamburgers and foot massages before they bust into an apartment to terrorize the occupants .  the two men were sent to the apartment to recover a mysterious briefcase for their boss , marsellus wallace .  after basically toying with the men , especially the unfortunate brett ( frank whaley ) , vincent and jules complete their mission and recover the briefcase .  this is not before a man jumps out from a bathroom with a . 357   " hand cannon " , shooting at the two gangsters .  he somehow completely misses them , leading jules to cite divine intervention .  this is also the basis for more of the now-famous tarantino dialogue .  the film then shifts to focus on boxer butch coolidge and his boxing escapades .  butch was ordered to take a fall in his latest fight , but when he does not , marsellus vows to find him , wherever he is , and make sure that butch is not able to enjoy his new fortune .  vincent , meanwhile , has the honor of taking marsellus' wife , mia , out on a date while the big man is out of town .  vincent , obviously , is rather nervous about this , especially after hearing the tale about a man who was thrown out of a window for supposedly giving mia a foot massage .  after their date , which seems to rather smoothly , things take a turn for the worst at the hands of vincent's high-priced heroin , dubbed a " monster " by lance .  each story continually progresses , and new and amazing events occur .  eventually , the stories all meet each other in the end , with pumpkin and honey bunny holding up the restaurant , which happens to contain both vincent and jules .  pulp fiction is definitely one of the best films of the decade , and possibly of all-time .  along with its superb dialogue , action , writing , directing , and acting , this film will not only latch onto you , but it proves that it does not want to release you until it has sunk its claws completely into you .  and with most fans of this movie , this is proved to be a rather easy task , although at times the graphic images , violence , and language may seem a bit overpowering .  surely , quentin tarantino's fame was greatly escalated by this film , and he proves not to be one who will fade from existence very soon . 
neg@ from a major league baseball radio broadcast , featuring play-by- play man harry canary and color man whitey hashbrown , with special guest commentator james berardinelli .  hc : as we go to the top of the 8th , we're joined in the booth by film critic james berardinelli , who's here fresh from seeing the new baseball movie , major league : back to the minors , the third in the popular saga taking a lighter look at the majors .  nice to see you , jim .  as a big baseball fan and a movie reviewer , can you give us the scoop on the new flick ?  jb : my opinion : the producers should have stopped while they were ahead , and that was nine years ago .  one entry was definitely enough , and i'm surprised there was a third after the anemic showing and low quality of major league 2 . this latest installment has all the earmarks of something that should have been released direct-to-video .  it's worse than a mediocre made-for-tv feature .  i should also mention that this movie likely won't play all that well in cleveland .  now that the real indians are perennial contenders , they have been replaced by the minnesota twins as the cinematic sadsacks .  actually , most of the action involves the twins' aaa minor league club , the buzz , rather than the actual major league franchise .  hc : sorry to interrupt , jim , but we still have to do play-by-play for the game on the field .  leading off this inning is john warren .  he steps into the batter's box and takes kent's pitch low for ball one .  wh : so , the story's strictly minor league , right ?  what's it about ?  jb : scott bakula , the guy from quantum leap , plays career minor league pitcher gus cantrell .  when twins owner roger dorn , once again portrayed by corbin bernsen , needs a new manager for his aaa team , he offers the job to gus , who is now faced with two daunting tasks : turn the team around and groom hot prospect downtown anderson ( played by walt goggins ) for a promotion to " the show . "  with the help of former major leaguers pedro cerrano ( dennis haysbert ) , rube baker ( eric bruskotter ) , and isuro tanaka ( takaaki ishibashi ) , gus gets the buzz on the right track .  in fact , he is so successful that he earns the enmity of the jealous manager of the big-league club , leonard huff ( played with over-the-top relish by ted mcginley ) .  soon , dorn has arranged an exhibition game that pits gus' overachieving group against huff's overpaid , last-place bunch .  wh : can we guess who wins ?  jb : the results have all the suspense of watching the videotape of a game when you've already seen the box score .  on top of that , none of the mock-ups are presented with much flair .  they're not just boring ; they're lackluster .  but the major league movies have never been about drama or tension ; they've been about using baseball situations to generate laughs .  hc : warren fouls off a fastball .  1 and 1 .  wh : are there lots of yuks in this one ?  jb : not one , from start to finish .  i enjoyed the first major league because it was reasonably fresh and funny .  okay , a lot of the jokes were sophomoric , but they made me laugh .  the two sequels haven't just been stale , but their humor quotient has been abysmally low .  even bob uecker's once-sharp one-liners have turned lame , and they're the closest the film comes to being even vaguely amusing .  hc : here's the 1-1 pitch .  looooooong drive ? fair or foul ? foul ball !  the count goes to 1 and 2 .  wh : does the film at least get the baseball details correct ?  jb : yes .  there aren't any glaring errors like there were in one of the best-ever baseball movies , the natural .  but i'd gladly trade a technically accurate film for one with a good story , believable characters , or even a little genuine humor .  heck , the naked gun is a better baseball comedy than major league : back to the minors .  wh : it's nice to see old friends one more time , isn't it ?  like cerrano , tanaka , and dorn .  jb : depends on whether you really care that anyone is back .  there aren't any real characters here ? just an assortment of cliched oddballs .  yeah , the voodoo hitter , the catcher who can't throw back to the pitcher , the japanese player , and the conceited player-turned-owner have all returned , but who really cares ?  they have no depth .  notable absences include tom berenger's veteran and charlie sheen's " wild thing . "  we don't really miss them , though .  hc : breaking ball , low and outside .  2 and 2 .  wh : so you're saying that we should give this one a miss ?  jb : that's right .  to use baseball terminology , it's a three-pitch strikeout .  if you're looking for a good movie that involves baseball , try popping the natural , field of dreams , bull durham , or even the first major league into the vcr .  actually , this is an oddly-timed release , since baseball fans are likely to be spending more time in parks than in theaters .  even the minor league seasons are already underway .  don't bother with major league : back to the minors .  it's a wretched time- waster .  wh : thanks for the advice .  jb : you're welcome .  hc : and here's the 2-2 pitch .  fouled back , right into this booth .  hey , jim , heads up !  oops .  somebody better get him some ice for that .  he may be good at deflecting bad baseball movies , but he needs to learn not to duck into foul balls .  odd how warren seemed to aim that ball right at him , almost as if he has a grudge to settle .  anyway , back to the action on the field ? 
pos@ robert benton has assembled a stellar , mature cast for his latest feature , twilight , a film noir mystery set amid the fading stars of hollywood .  paul newman stars as retired detective harry ross .  harry has spent the last couple of years doing odd jobs for jack and catherine ames ( gene hackman and susan sarandon ) , a pair of married actors who have fallen from the limelight .  when jack sends him on a routine delivery job , however , the old instincts kick in .  soon , harry is wading through a mystery where friendships and lives are on the line , and he no longer knows who to trust .  there are plenty of familiar faces throughout twilight , in addition to newman , hackman and sarandon .  james garner plays raymond hope , a former cop and one of harry's best friends .  stockard channing plays verna , harry's former partner , and possibly a former love interest .  reese witherspoon is mel , the distrustful daughter of the ames' , and liev schrieber is her scuzzy boyfriend .  giancarlo esposito appears as harry's bumbling detective protigi , and john spencer is a suspicious police captain .  with a cast like that , it's almost worth watching twilight just to stargaze .  luckily , there's more to the film than some sort of actor's recognition ceremony .  twilight has a solid film noir-ish plot .  it may not have as many twists and turns as some of the classics , but it has much more than a lot of what passes for film these days .  the major cast members all deliver strong performances , as can be expected of their caliber .  however , none of them have that little extra oomph which would make them memorable .  the supporting cast is enjoyable , if a little underdrawn .  stockard channing's character , in particular , is a cipher .  there's more to her character than the film takes the time to describe .  it's a minor , but irritating , flaw .  with a solid cast , and a good plot , there's a lot to recommend about twilight .  it's biggest flaw is actually its short running time .  at a slim 94 minutes , there's a lot of stuff that's packed into an awfully small package .  still , the chance to see newman , sarandon and hackman working together is worth a cramp or two . 
neg@ one of the first films of 1999 is this mtv pictures release which marks the first leading feature role for james van der beek , the star of the wb's runaway hit dawson's creek .  following in the foot steps of mtv's two other live action films , joe's apartment ( 1996 ) and dead man on campus ( 1998 ) , varsity blues is a bad film and is unlikely to cause much of a sensation in the marketplace .  set in west cannan , texas , the film examines the small town obsession with high school football through the eyes of second string quarterback john " mox " moxon ( van der beek ) .  we know he's smart because he reads kurt vonnegut instead of the playbook .  coach bud kilmer ( jon voight ) has been around so long there is actually a bronze statue commemorating him .  the star quarterback , lance harbor ( paul walker ) , is a handsome , blonde , hero who has his own billboard in his front yard and dates the sexy head cheerleader , darcy ( ali larter ) .  also on the team are an enormous guy ( ron lester ) with some health problems and the token african-american team member ( eliel swinton ) whose only real dialogue scene deals directly with the color of his skin .  when lance is seriously injured , mox gets his chance to shine and he runs with it , undermining kilmer with his unusual playing strategies .  his relationship with his dutiful girlfriend , jules ( amy smart ) , is threatened and there's a big game at the end .  guess who wins ?  nothing about varsity blues is inspired and the whole film simply moves through the sort of conventional motions that coach kilmer would love .  there's a chance for some smart satire on small town obsessions but the humor here is decidedly lowbrow .  van der beek does a decent job of carrying his first film although a silly accent trips him up sometimes .  also , the role isn't very much of a stretch from his dawson leary character .  he's still a pseudo-intellectual , whiny , nice guy , except here he also happens to be a jock .  voight is a terror as he chews up every single piece of scenery and spits it out .  the other adults are all notably awful while the younger performers don't fare much better .  on the positive side , walker is a charismatic actor who is due for a breakout role following this and his supporting turn in pleasantville ( 1998 ) .  scott ( son of james ) caan has some lively moments as tweeder , the team's wild man .  larter , as a gorgeous seductress looking for a one way ticket out of texas , gets to show off the film's most interesting costumes , including a very eye-opening " whipped cream bikini . "  it's interesting to note that the film definitely earns its r-rating with a lot of harsh language , alcohol abuse and an unusually high amount of nudity ( including a gratuitous trip to a strip bar that reveals a not very surprising surprise ) .  all this is likely to come as a shock to the young female fan base of dawson's creek , presumably the target audience for the picture .  director brian robbins previously helmed the kids feature good burger ( from nickelodeon films , a sister company of mtv ) and changes directions here a bit but still fails to make much of an impression .  the look of the movie is as bland as the town and characters who populate it .  the football scenes are generally unexciting and the entire film looks a bit washed out .  there's an ok soundtrack featuring music from collective soul , foo fighters , green day and aaliyah but it's not as impressive as one would expect from a mtv film . 
pos@ with three pre- to mid-teen children and an aging father-in-law to care for--cooking and cleaning and laundry , drop-offs at little league practice and pick-ups from ballet practice--margaret hall's life is rife with complications .  and with her naval officer husband stationed somewhere in the north atlantic , virtually impossible to reach by telephone , margaret leads the crazed life of a single parent .  but margaret's hectic world is about to get a lot more complicated .  her teenage son beau , a talented trumpet player with strong prospects of being accepted into wesleyan university's music program , has fallen in with the wrong crowd .  his mother drives from their idyllic , lakeside community of tahoe city , california to the sprawling urban metropolis of reno , nevada , with its imposing concrete superstructures and seedy neon-lit nightclubs , to confront the 30-something man who has befriended beau .   " stay away from my son " margaret warns darby reese .  her words , however , appear to fall on deaf ears as reese turns up drunk at the family homestead later that evening , urging beau to join him in the boathouse .  there are words and advances and some pushing and shoving and beau runs back into the house , passed his startled mother , as the crack of a wooden railing giving way breaks the cold blue silence and an intoxicated reese tumbles out of sight .  the next day , on her morning walk , margaret discovers reese's lifeless body lying crumpled on the shoreline , a boat anchor impaled in his chest .  with her maternal instincts working overtime , margaret quickly ferries the body out into the lake , weighs it down , and dumps it overboard .  but margaret's life is about to get a lot more complicated .  soon after the body is discovered , snagged on a local fisherman's line , margaret is paid a visit by an attractive-seeming blackmailer in a red nova .  alek spera threatens to hand over compromising videotape of beau to the police unless margaret comes up with $50 , 000 by 4 o'clock the next day .  but margaret's life is about to get a lot more complicated , for alek turns out to be something she never expected .  based on elisabeth sanxay holding's novel " the blank wall , " " the deep end " is a well-crafted thriller written and directed by scott mcgehee and david siegel ( " suture " ) .  it makes the most of a talented but not particularly well-known cast--goran visnjic plays alek with a suave likeability , jonathan tucker shines as the conflicted beau , peter donat is amusing as grandfather hall , and josh lucas has an equally small but effective role as the hapless darby reese .  the film is also lovingly photographed by giles nuttgens and features an evocative score , courtesy peter nashel .  but it owes everything to british actress tilda swinton .  swinton , whose pale-faced ethereal beauty has graced many of derek jarman's films ( " caravaggio , " " edward ii , " " the last of england " ) , plays margaret hall in " the deep end " and , like charlotte rampling in this year's " under the sand , " turns in a commanding and accomplished performance .  margaret is a devoted mother who is willing to risk everything to protect the ones she loves , and swinton captures every frustration , every fear , every subtle examination and every fervent realization and every nervous oscillation of her being .  the role calls for an extremely wide range of emotions none the least of which is simply playing a mother beset with a multitude of domestic responsibilities .  many can relate to that , of course ; it's the murder cover-up and the blackmail and the fear of losing one's son that swinton so gracefully , so graciously , makes resonate with the truest of colors .  the end is deep all right , and there isn't a single shallow moment in tilda swinton's canon . 
neg@ all right , all right , we get the point : despite all similarities to the best-selling story , speechless is * not * based on the romance between 1992 presidential campaign rivals james carville and mary matalin .  in fact , the script was in development well before 1992 .  still , the comparisons are inevitable , until one realizes a critical difference .  no , it's not that the speechless twosome are speech writers , not campaign managers ; it's that carville and matalin's story is actually interesting .  speechless is a limp , poorly structured would-be romantic comedy .  speechless is set during a new mexico senatorial campaign , where kevin vallick ( michael keaton ) and julia mann ( geena davis ) meet and get romantic one night when neither one can sleep .  what neither one realizes is that they are on opposite sides of the campaign : kevin is a sit-com writer brought in to punch up the republican candidate's speeches , while julia is the chief speech writer for the democratic candidate .  at first each one believes that the other has an ulterior motive for the relationship , but eventually they let down their guard and become closer .  but there are plent of obstacles in the way , including julia's stud-reporter fiance ( christopher reeve ) and a series of stunts which continue to prove that all's fair in love and politics .  the standard formula for a movie like speechless would have the two principles starting out as antagonists and realizing only at the end that they're crazy about each other .  screenwriter robert king completely subverts expectations by throwing kevin and julia into each other's arms in the first fifteen minutes , then developing the antagonism .  it's a noble attempt to shake things up , but unfortunately it just doesn't work .  part of the fun of watching sparring in a romantic comedy comes from recognizing the chemistry even before the characters do , but in speechless they already know they're attracted to each other , and we're left with waiting for the campaign to end so they'll admit that they love each other already .  there is such a herky-jerky feel to the constant bickering and making up that even king's sharp dialogue can't prevent speechless from becoming repetitive after about half an hour .  inconsistency is also the defining characteristic of the performances of geena davis and michael keaton , and with those performances most of their scenes together .  the problems begin with their initial courtship , which does virtually nothing to establish julia's character and merely establishes that kevin is a wise-ass .  davis is radiantly beautiful , and keaton is generally entertaining , but these characters are so plastic that nothing that happens to them seems to matter one bit .  in a couple of scenes , like a quiet moment sitting at a fountain , they actually achieve some measure of connection .  for the most part , however , they're just actors spouting lines .  you keep waiting for a little spark , and it never happens .  perhaps most disappointing is that king and director ron underwood completely waste their premise by removing all the punch from speechless's politics .  the setting seems perfect for a high- energy battle of the sexes with partisanship thrown into the mix , but that's never the tone that underwood is going for .  he wants a warm , fuzzy romance compatible with marc shaiman's flute-and-wind musical score , and the campaign which should have defined the conflict between kevin and julia fades into the background .  it might as well have been a story about rival grocers , and every single character is about as uninspired as he or she could possibly be .  i was about the only reviewer in the civilized world who seemed to enjoy robert king's previous screenplay , the dana carvey flop clean slate , so i had some hopes for speechless .  but while there is wit in the words , this is a script which was probably much better on paper .  on screen , it's still paper thin . 
pos@ hedwig and the angry inch ( 2001 ) john cameron mitchell , miriam shor , stephen trask , michael pitt , theodore liscinski , michael aronov , andrea martin , maurice dean wint , ben mayer-goodman .  animation by emily hubley .  adapted from the stage play by john cameron mitchell and stephen trask .  music and lyrics by stephn trask .  written and directed by john cameron mitchell .  91 minutes .  rated r , stars )  had " hedwig and the angry inch " came out in the '70s , right after david bowie's " ziggy stardust , " it likely would now be regarded as one of the most popular rock musicals of all time .  released in the 500 channel , sensory overload world of 2001 , however , the big screen adaptation of the acclaimed off-broadway musical must do battle with countless other productions clamoring for attention .  i almost missed it .  every august , the major studios try to squeeze the last few dollars out of summer moviegoers by dumping all of their shakier offerings on the marketplace at once .  i was so busy trying to keep up with national releases like " summer catch " and " bubble boy " that i passed over any independent film that looked like it would only have a short local run .  but an e-mail from a reader asking why i hadn't reviewed the movie prompted me to make a late evening trip to the theater .  thank goodness for readers like him .   " hedwig and the angry inch " is a gender-bending glam-rock spectacular packed with great songs .  stylistically , the hook-laden tunes are reminiscent of bowie , " bat out of hell " era meatloaf and " the rocky horror show , " without ever seeming like imitations .  as with " tommy , " " hedwig " tells a story of isolation , pain and defiance , but without the bloated feel of that beloved , but overrated rock opera .  writer-director-star john cameron mitchell and composer-lyricist stephen trask have cooked up a real winner .  mitchell stars as hedwig , a singer from east berlin touring a chain of u . s . coffee shops with her pan-slavic band , the angry inch .  while the patrons of the run-down restaurants look on in shock , and sometimes horror , hedwig boldly tells the sad story of her life in song .  she was once a boy named hansel ( ben mayer-goodman ) , living with his mother ( alberta watson ) and listening to rock and roll on american armed forces radio .  life is an exercise in duality for hansel .  a wall splits his hometown into two parts .  mother describes love as the emotion that comes when you find your other half .  as hansel grows up , the duality becomes more pronounced .  after initially mistaking him for a girl , a gi from the states ( maurice dean wint ) falls in love with hansel and wants to marry him .  alas , hansel will never pass the mandatory physical .  mother helpfully suggests a sex change , but the operation goes bad , hence the references to " the angry inch " ( yes , i know this part is squirm-inducing , but stick with me - it's worth it ) .  several years later , mr . right is long gone and hansel becomes hedwig , decked out in a farrah fawcett-style wig and fronting a band made up of korean women .  hedwig finds a new love in tommy ( michael pitt ) , a beatific lad with a unique take on christianity .  but tommy does hedwig wrong , stealing her songs and becoming a superstar .  cut to the present .  tommy gnosis' stadium tour is thriving and hedwig is suing him .  despite warnings from her manager ( andrea martin ) that she could easily be labeled a stalker , hegwig and her new band , the angry inch , continue their coffee shop tour , shadowing the thief by playing whatever city he is in .  if this sounds like a bizarre premise for a rock musical , take a few seconds and consider the plotlines of " tommy " and " rocky horror . "  as hedwig , john cameron mitchell does a magnificent job taking a character that could have simply been a caricature or an icon and turning her into a compelling human being .  mitchell has world-class style and vocal chords to match .  even though the backstory is unusually strong , mitchell never forgets that the production is first and foremost a rock musical .  everything is propelled by one terrific song after another and , trust me , these are full-fledged rock songs , not the over-processed fluff that passes for rock in most musicals .  while mitchell remains in the center of the stage throughout the film , there is much of interest on the sidelines .  miriam shor does fine work as yitzhak , hedwig's lover and bandmate , conveying a great deal through expressions alone .  decked out in a bandanna and a surprisingly convincing beard , she makes a mighty attractive man .  as always , " sctv " veteran andrea martin is a welcome presence onscreen and michael pitt is beguiling as tommy , the angelic-appearing little rat .  artist emily hubley adds to the magic with a string of dandy animated sequences that charm the eye while underlining the central themes of the musical .   " hedwig and the angry inch " surrounds a weird , funny and touching story with a knockout series of songs performed by an exceptional cast .  true originals do not come along very often ? don't let this slip out of town without seeing it . 
neg@  " america's sweethearts " has an intriguing premise and a great cast , but it isn't nearly as edgy or funny as it should be .  almost all the problems with the project can be traced back to co-script writer billy crystal , who shows the same lack of discipline with the screenplay that he typically displays while co-hosting " comic relief " charity shows with robin williams and whoopi goldberg ( two other paragons of self-indulgence ) .  crystal ignores a simple , but crucial , rule : for a screwball comedy to work , the characters must be placed into a rigid social setting , because only in that context will their unorthodox antics be humorous .   " america's sweethearts " takes place at a press junket , where decorum must be maintained in front of the reporters .  it's a promising set-up , but the screenplay quickly blows off the rules , thus dissipating the tension of the situation .  by the end of the film , all the lead performers participate in a huge fight with a room full of journalists looking on , but their outbursts are only mildly amusing because the structure has been destroyed .  john cusack and catherine zeta-jones play eddie thomas and gwen harrison , a beloved acting duo whose marriage hit the skids when gwen began seeing hector ( hank azaria ) , a spanish actor with an ego almost as pronounced as his lisp .  of the last nine films eddie and gwen made together , six crossed the $100 million mark , but the prospects for their final effort , a space opus titled " time over time , " are far from rosy .  while eddie has spent many months in a new age rest clinic fretting over the breakup , gwen's solo films have tanked .  to make matter worse , the director of the movie ( christopher walken ) , a " visionary " who purchased the unabomber's cabin and had it moved to his backyard , is withholding the film from the studio , insisting that the first screening be held at the junket .  desperate to win over the press , the studio elects to hire lee ( billy crystal ) , a recently fired publicist , to salvage the situation .  lee hopes to turn lemons into lemonade by convincing eddie and gwen to pretend to be on the road to reconciliation .  he enlists the help of kiki ( julia roberts ) , gwen's sister , personal assistant and whipping girl .  what lee doesn't know is that kiki is in love with eddie , a fact that could temper her effectiveness .  press junkets are a haven for control freaks .  studios fly journalists in from around the world and put them up in a plush hotel , with food and drink always at hand .  generally , on the evening of their arrival , writers are bussed to see the featured film , then ferreted straight back to the hotel .  the next day , writers go to the studio suites and assemble in groups of five or six for roundtable interviews .  every 30 minutes or so , a producer , director , writer or actor is brought into the room for a few minutes of questions , with a publicist hovering in the corner to keep an eye on things .  the atmosphere is one of cordial oppression ? writers are free to ask what they want , but understand that if the studio dislikes a question , they may not be invited to future junkets .  representatives from tv stations face even more restrictions .  they get roughly five minutes to interview each member of the cast and crew , with the studio filming the exchanges .  the " reporters " are notorious for tossing softball questions as they suck up to the stars , but to play it safe , the studios stand ready to erase the tapes if anything unpleasant occurs .  placing two spoiled actors in a setting where image is everything is inspired , but the screenplay undermines the conceit .  the junket is moved from the handsome , but highly confining , four seasons hotel to a plush resort near las vegas .  for most of the film , the movie stars run around the sprawling grounds , completely safe from the eyes of the press .  when they do deal with journalists , the " it is imperative that you be on your best behavior in front of the reporters " premise is de-clawed .  gwen and eddie insult each other while the tv cameras roll , they scream at each other in a restaurant filled with the media and , at the screening of the movie , everyone connected with the film goes nuts , all without any repercussions .  lee certainly isn't bothered by any of the infantile outbursts ; in fact , he makes arrangements for footage of even more inappropriate behavior to be delivered to the tabloids .  is the studio angry about his handling of the combative actors ?  hell no ? they feel lee is a genius for garnering so much publicity for the movie .  all of which underscores how billy crystal and co-writer peter tolan screwed up their own premise : the comedy in " america's sweethearts " is based on barely-in-control people trying to contain themselves in the presence of reporters , except that it doesn't matter because any publicity is good publicity .  and thus the very set-up for the film implodes , leaving smoke and dust in place of laughter .  so what about the cast ?  julia roberts , at her best playing the underdog , is utterly charming here , although i could have lived without flashbacks that exist solely as an excuse to show her in a fat suit ( and not a very convincing one , by the way ) .  catherine zeta-jones makes a believable brat and john cusack fleshes out his obsessed character enough to make him vaguely sympathetic .  by casting himself as the publicist , billy crystal allows himself to do roughly the same thing he does on " comic relief " - stay on the sidelines of the action while tossing off cornball jokes and snarky remarks .  in supporting roles , hank azaria wears out his welcome fast with broad gestures and a spanish accent that speedy gonzales would have deemed " too broad . "  seth green is amusing as a toadie , stanley tucci is very good as a ruthless studio head and christopher walken plays the eccentric director with suitable flair , though he has little to work with .  come to think of it , " little to work with " is the operative phrase for this movie .  as a hollywood satire , " america's sweethearts " is toothless .  as a romance , it is at best a minor pleasure .  such a good cast , such a waste of their efforts .  had it not been taken long ago , a better title for the film would have been " much ado about nothing . " 
pos@ now , lets first look into the history of shark films .  there was the unforgettable jaws .  the exciting jaws 2 . the rather flaky jaws 3d and sometime in the late 90s another film of the same genre that i can't seem to recall ( about the son of jaws returning to wreak revenge or something like that ) .  now , with the magic of cgi , one shark is simply not enough ; in deep blue sea , there are 3 big , mean and really smart ones !  russell frankiln ( jackson ) visits aquatica ( a sea-bound research center ) , where a research is being conducted on the extraction of a hormone substance found uniquely within the shark brain that can cure and reverse the effects of alzheimer's disease .  the substance is small in quantity and because of this , lead researcher dr . susan macalaester genetically alters the shark dna and grows them twice the size with brains as big as humans , naturally producing more of the much treasured hormones .  as sure as the sun sets in the west , a shark breaks lose and wreaks havoc within the facility during a hormone extraction procedure .  with the flexibility offered by cgi , the sharks get more full-length screen time as their predecessors did in those remote-controlled rubber suit days .  gone are the days of people getting pulled under the water with the water turning red right after .  this time , we get to see the entire gobbling action , with floating limbs and all .  so-so acting , expected in most of your average action film .  jackson ( fresh from his jedi master role in the phantom menace ) , takes on the dark-side force of a different kind and fits well with his wise-cracking lines .  ll cool j's cook role as preacher , does for this film what steven seagal's cook could only dream to achieve in his two under siege films .  deep blue sea does not offer any of the psychological thrills that jaws has to offer .  it does however , prove to be a refreshing follow-up within the genre , full of visual thrills , suspense and believe it or not  humour !  its like jurassic park under water .  nothing too stressful , pure entertainment .  renny harlin , you are forgiven ( for making cutthroat island ) . 
neg@  " idle hands " is distasteful , crass and derivative .  if an original thought found its way into this horror-comedy it would die of loneliness .  plus , you have to question the judgment and sensitivity of studio executives who would green light the release of a movie dealing with the slaughter of innocent teen-agers the week after the tragedy in littleton , colo .  the movie is insulting to horror film fans and teen-agers .  the plot , what little there is , deals with anton ( devon sawa ) , a high-school slacker who's hand goes on a murderous rampage after becoming possessed .  along the way the hand kills anton's parents and his two best friends .  the friends , also slackers , are so lazy that they return from the dead because the walk into the light was too far for them .  that is the level of this's atrocity's humor .  the movie treats death as a joke .   " idle hands " is gruesome and morbid .  the performances are stereotypical and cartoonish .  i realize this is supposed to pass for comedy , but recent events have surpassed what is on the screen .  it is not the fault of the filmmakers that real life has overtaken reel life .  and i can only presume that the writers of " idle hands , " terri hughes and ron milbauer , were trying to make some statement about today's young people and their values in a satiric vein .  however , it's hard to laugh at death these days , especially ones involving young people .  with the real horrors of the world put before us on television , a stale pastry such as " idle hands " should be held from release for a few weeks or months to give us time to catch our collective breaths .   " idle hands " is bad , no matter the circumstances in the world outside .  but the context of recent events only heightens its shortcomings .  the time is not right for this type of movie .  and as far as " idle hands " goes , the time may never be right .  this is a movie that shoud be consigned to the trash bin of cinema . 
pos@ only a year after the initial release of " scream , " the horror send-up from veteran horror director wes craven and screenwriter kevin williamson that seemed to breathe new life into the slasher genre , the inevitable sequel " scream 2 " has arrived in our theaters .  while the tongue-in-cheek , parodic element is still noticeable in this film , it's really a sideshow to a broader commentary on violence and the media and a more conventional horror story .  the first film , while often violent and gruesome , was mostly lacking in genuine scares because almost every scene was played for camp value and the discussion of the quirks and cliches of horror movies was nearly constant .  the premise of " scream 2 " is that a series of copycat killings begin when a movie called " stab , " based on a book written by opportunistic reporter gail weathers ( courtney cox ) about the events in " scream , " is released and two audience members are killed during the opening screening .  i had heard about this scene before i went to see the film and was surprised to find this sequence largely lacking in camp comedy .  its conclusion , in which a bleeding , wounded woman stumbles in front of the screen and dies in front of an audience that cheers on because they think it's a publicity stunt , is more surreal and disturbing than anything else .  the satire in " scream 2 " thus takes on a broad focus and gradually evolves into an exploration of media perceptions in general .  although resident horror film geek randy ( jamie kennedy ) is back with fresh dialogue about sequels ( and , interestingly enough , how they are usually inferior to their predecessors ) , the characters in this movie are drawing from other entries in the pop culture encyclopedia as well .  everything from " friends " and " saved by the bell " to " showgirls " and " terminator 2 " is referenced here ; horror is only one of many genres available for lampooning , and there aren't any " wes carpenter " jokes this time .  more importantly , this film portrays characters willing to go to disturbing lengths for media attention as well as characters whose perceptions have clearly been warped by what they have seen on tv and film .  the killings are clearly an imitation of the previous murders from " scream " ( in fact , the culprit even plans to use the influence of horror movies as a courtroom defense ) , weathers exploits the situation for her own notoriety , and one man seems willing to save the heroine's life only if it will earn him an interview on the today show .  understandably , " scream 2 " does not go so far as to actually blame the movies , but rather shows that those who do imitate horror movies are already sick and twisted .  couple that with the fact that several of the characters , most notably the lead character sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) , are fairly well-developed and that there are some genuine moments of spine-chilling suspense , and what we have is a pretty darned good horror movie in its own right .  we don't just get the horror of scary masks and graphic gore - we also get the horror of sympathetic characters who seem helpless as their friends are slaughtered ( and , in one case , a significant character who was an audience favorite even bites the dust ) and whose lives have been reduced to constant fear of a crazed murderer lurking around the corner .  while i have not seen any of his other work , it's easy to see why craven is generally touted as the most sophisticated " slasher film " director , as he clearly cares about something more than just the actual acts of slashing .  unfortunately , " scream 2 " occasionally reverts to the time-honored horror tradition of throwing logic out the window .  for example , several characters seem quite clearly dead and inexplicably turn up alive later - there has been a running gag in both movies about the villain being able to pull off this particular trick , but it also happens with other characters and in an even less believable fashion .  there are also a few scenes in which the killer suddenly appears behind the next victim in a situation such that ( s ) he clearly would have been seen moving in that direction .  as for the question of whether or not " scream 2 " is yet another sequel not as good as its predecessor .   .   .  well , it's hard to say .  i gave the first " scream " 3 1/2 stars as well because it worked pretty consistently as a light-hearted send-up .   " scream 2 " bounces all over the place stylistically , but it does a better job delivering the genuine scares and asking the questions about media violence that were only hinted at in the first installment .  i'm not sure which is the better movie , but i did leave the theater convinced of one thing : sequels , however much randy might argue , do not necessarily suck . 
neg@ america loves convenience .  after all , we're the culture that invented the cell phone , the 24-hour atm , and my most beloved , the remote control .  yet perhaps this time , with ghosts of mars , we have taken our love of convenience to far .  ghosts of mars stars natasha henstridge as a tough as nails , pill-poppin' , martian cop , sent with her squadron to retrieve " demolition " williams ( ice cube ) from a remote mining town for trial back home .  when she and her comrades , appropriately dubbed " the commander , " " the rookies , " and the guy with the cool accent discover the town's residents slaughtered , they are forced to team up with williams to escape from the remaining residents' head-chopping , alien-possessed clutches .  filled with a lovely overuse of storytelling flashbacks , flashes-sideways , and viewpoint changes , ghosts of mars is a hapless mishmash of poorly constructed dialogue and ill-conceived action sequences .  the only thing keeping this film from becoming an incomprehensible mess is the sheer idiotic simplicity of its story .  ripped straight from the pages of a 1970s zombie movie , ghosts leaps from one convenient moment to the next , stopping only to kill the characters which are most convenient to lose .  attempts at character interaction and development are rare and forced .  most of these moments come off as kwik-e-mart wisdom , dispensed heartily around the slushee machine of life by the even-tempered streetwise hand of ice cube .  with a gun in one hand and a dynamite cap in the other , cube reminisces about his street life , comparing the zombie-stomping fun to " me and my brother when we was kids . "  apparently , crime in the bronx has gotten so bad that the residents have actually taken to ritually decapitating one another for entertainment .  but , even in the film's darkest moments , fate conveniently lends a hand , supplying heavily armored transportation and easily accessible rifles and dynamite .  yes , in the future , man may travel to space and conquer mars , but nothing beats a good stick of tnt .  and as we all know , every police station , past , present , or future , keeps a healthy supply on hand .  characters die , heads are lopped off , but they were only supporting roles anyway , so why should we care ?  as long as you have plenty of narcotics , immunity is guaranteed .  eventually though , even the most well-trained zombie alien gets a bit uppity and needs to be taught a lesson .  what better way than by sacrificing a few minor characters to a convenient nuclear detonation , killing anything the machine guns can't handle .  explosions are fun .  and even if the nukes don't get them , the conveniently placed dynamite packs on the train stolen from the set of the road warrior certainly will .  in the end this film defines itself when our cop's tribunal pronounces , " is that all you have to tell us ? "  for , indeed , john carpenter has run out of things to say , and has instead decided to use whatever is convenient to tell a ridiculously bad story . 
pos@ notting hill's trailer is awful : a laughless , schmaltzy montage .  the movie was desperately marketed to the anti-phantom menace crowd , the same lovelorn females who ignored the love letter .  and it apparently worked .  perhaps the presence of julia roberts-whose allure beyond those perfect teeth still escapes me-had a lot to do with notting hill's opening weekend success , but the film's staying power is based on word of mouth .  allow me to spread some more good buzz for notting hill .  grant stars as william thacker , a travel-bookstore owner who works and resides in a tiny english district called notting hill .  into his shop one day wanders famous actress anna scott ( roberts ) .  a common thief , some spilled orange juice , and some stilted conversation leads to their first , highly impetuous ( or is that improbable ? ) , kiss .  days later , william sneaks into her hotel suite under the guise of a magazine journalist , and so begins a passionate , albeit surreptitious , affair .   ( aside : notting hill's portrayal of press junkets is deadly accurate . )  only anna's celebrity-or william's lack thereof-threatens to drive a wedge between them .  richard curtis has tapped into fantasy we all have considered , and for at least its first half-hour the picture's " beauty and the beast " -like scenario is ( romantic ) escapism of the highest order .  as with groundhog day or pleasantville , while watching the high-concept comedy notting hill one constantly imagines him/herself in the lead ; it's william's ordinaryness that entices the spoiled and bored anna .  curtis ( who previously penned four weddings and a funeral ) is also smart enough to know that the unlikely couple's situation is not enough to fuel two hours' worth of entertainment , so some of notting hill's finest moments revolve around william's eccentric friends and family .  by now , dear reader , you've probably heard a lot about rhys ifans' performance as william's imbecilic welsh flatmate .  yes , he's a crowd pleaser , a walking sight gag , but his character is not nearly as involving as the wheelchair-bound ( and appropriately named ) bella ( mckee , the anguished waitress of naked ) or max ( tom mcinnerny ) , her lousy chef of a husband .  in the movie's best sequence , william , anna , and company sit around bloated from max's latest concoction and hold a contest : the last brownie on the table goes to the diner with the saddest life .  the scene ends only as a british writer would end it .  if anything , fantastic bits like these dull the main plot's dramatic impact .  roberts and grant , especially , are appealing , but their relationship is convolutedly interrupted too many times ( four weddings' suffered similar flaws ) , and william and anna ultimately only have one thing in common : they're lonely .   ( worth noting in roberts' and grant's favour : the ubiquitous " i'm just a girl , standing across from a boy , asking him to love her " episode is not nearly so syrupy as it appears in clips , and it features some of the best emoting either actor has ever done . )  notting hill is nonetheless enjoyable ; on the visual side of things , i especially appreciated michell's playful changing-of-the-seasons number .  if only ( and this is a surprisinly minor gripe ) he had lopped off the egregious epilogue ; for a story that thrives on what we bring to it , the filmmakers work too hard to tidy things up , leaving our imaginations in the lurch . 
neg@ georges polti once wrote a paper called " the thirty-six dramatic situations , " in which he asserted the fact that all drama could be defined by no more than thirty-six different situations .  this may be the modern restatement of the biblical prophecy from ecclesiastes , " there's nothing new under the sun . "  the faculty , the latest movie by from dusk till dawn director robert rodriguez , certainly proves this in typical hollywood fashion .  there's not a measureable fraction of original material in this unworthy outing .  drawing elements from both the puppet masters and invasion of the body snatchers , screenwriter kevin williamson ( of scream 2 credit ) gives us a horror tale set in middle america ( ohio ) one eventful fall .  making use of a cast of unusually stock characters , williamson designs an alien invasion that will not be done independence day-style but rather " through the back door . "  parasitic aliens take over the faculty of a run-down high school and soon have infested most of the student body , leaving it up to the ensemble of principal characters to win the day .  the lack of gusto is the movie's major stumbling block .  even though the genre has seen movies that have a lack for quality such as this , they've been saved by an energetic approach .  this casts more than a shadow of a doubt on williamson's ability , who enjoyed success with the wes craven-directed scream but couldn't pull anything solid in for this outing or i know what you did last summer .  although he designs the faculty with more of a sci-fi bent than his typical slasher picture , it still comes down to the same results : throw the stock characters in a steel cage match and see who comes out alive .  on that level , the main roles are played by virtual unknowns .  only the recognizeable elijah wood ( deep impact ) is at the front ; other than that , the screen veterans are saved for the minor roles of the alien teachers .  perhaps williamson has it in mind to champion these up-and-comers to the fame that their scream and last summer counterparts achieved ; but to do that , they'd all need to star in their own wb television show about the horrors of puberty a la " dawson's creek . "  needless to say the acting is far from top notch , nor does necessity ask that it should be .  there is a moment or two of genuine horror , but unfortunately williamson and rodriguez did not take the story far enough in the sci-fi direction to make any use of it .  in sum , the faculty was just one long shot that did not pay off . 
pos@ i've never been a member of the robin williams fan club .  a little bit of his improvisationaly schtick goes a long way , and i sometimes feel as though i'm watching a 40-year-old class clown .  in his films , williams has often tried to balance his mania with touchy-feely emotion , leading to wildly uneven performances .  mrs .  doubtfire seemed ready-made for the same problems , but instead it proves to be williams' best comic screen project yet .  while it still contains some characteristic self-indulgence , mrs .  doubtfire is nonetheless an engaging belly-laugh comedy served up with high energy .  williams stars as daniel hillard , a cartoon voiceover artist with a penchant for irresponsible behavior .  one such incident proves one too many for wife miranda ( sally field ) , and she files for a divorce .  unemployed , living in a disastrously unkempt apartment and faced with limited time with his three beloved children , daniel decides to respond to miranda's ad for an afternoon housekeeper .  he turns to his brother frank ( harvey fierstein ) , a theatrical makeup artist , and emerges as euphegenia doubtfire , a matronly 65-year-old englishwoman .  daniel uses his access to the house to keep an eye on miranda's flirtation with a wealthy client ( pierce brosnan ) , to spend time with the children , and to learn something about responsible parenting , all the while trying to keep his identity hidden from the people who know him best .  mrs . doubtfire has to overcome a mountain of implausibilities to work , and basically it does so .  the most crucial is that no one in the family recognizes daniel , and thanks to the fantastic special makeup that's instantly believable .  it may be one of the most convincing transformations ever committed to film , making dustin hoffman's dorothy michaels look like milton berle .  more problematic was a series of calls daniel makes to miranda posing as nannies from hell ; it's a bit hard to swallow that she doesn't recognize any of the voices as her husband's .  perhaps the biggest contrivance we're asked to swallow is that daniel could make a quick change into mrs . doubtfire in a few minutes .  there's more to realistic makeup than slapping on a latex mask .  fortunately , these are inconsistencies which only attract attention as the credits roll .  during the film , i was generally too busy laughing .  after getting off to a slow start involving too much of williams' riffing , mrs .  doubtfire kicks into high gear once the wig and pads are in place .  daniel's frantic attempt to fool a court officer is wonderful , as is the climactic restaurant sequence , even though i saw the resolutions coming a mile away .  clearly , most of the credit for doubtfire's success goes to robin williams .  it took putting him in drag , but for once he plays a comic character that isn't just robin williams with a different name .  he thoroughly inhabits euphegenia doubtfire , and seems to relish the scenes in which he gets to play her as blunt and foul-mouthed .  wisely , he never aims for saintly .  his responses to the intrusion of new suitor stu are often petty , but the kind of thing most of us might do with the benefit of anonymity .  it's one of mrs .  doubtfire's charms that neither daniel nor miranda is perfect , just people trying to be better .  as miranda , sally field is solid in a background role , and pierce brosnan is nicely understated as stu .  the children are also good , although mara wilson is almost oppressively cute as the youngest .  the supporting players merely step aside and allow williams to do his thing .  it's easy to see mrs .  doubtfire as little more than tootsie warmed over , and it's true that there are both broad themes and specific details in common .  but mrs .  doubtfire manages to carve out its own space , particularly through the surprisingly honest moments involving a judge's decision and the ultimate status of daniel and miranda's relationship .  there's nothing dazzlingly new in mrs .  doubtfire , but there are plenty of laughs , and good comedies are always in short supply .  and it's nice to see robin williams just act for a change . 
neg@ years ago , robin williams made _jumanji_ , a brilliant achievement in special effects , but a travesty on nearly every other level .  the same can be said for _what dreams may come_ , a boring , illogical , weepie-wannabe that left my senses numb .  don't get me wrong : i love breathtaking special effects and pulse-pounding imagery .  _brazil_ is on my personal top ten .  _the city of lost children_ is a great film because of its outlandish scenarios .  i even love _2001_ and _last year at marienbad_ , being in the minority amidst my friends .  _what dreams may come_ , imagery aside , has little daring thought to complement its imagery .  the daring thought it _does_ have is never fully realized .  it's idea of a plot is so lukewarm , that it insults the bigger questions it raises .  it would have been better if the filmmakers rid the film of the live action sequences , put on an electronica soundtrack , and sell it as one of those popular _mind's eye_ videos .  robin williams plays chris nielsen , who dies too prematurely--not only in the story , but before we have a chance to really know and care for him .  the director , vincent ward , and the screenwriter ronald bass , have chosen to tell his life story in flashbacks while having the foreground story focus on his experience with the afterlife .  big mistake .  it would have been far better to take the half-hour or so needed to tell his life story first ( ala _it's a wonderful life_ ) , so that i can build up respect for him , so i could know and possibly care for him , his children , and his long-suffering wife ( played superbly by annabella sciorra ) .  instead , the filmmakers insult my intelligence by rushing into the story , expecting that the film to grow in depth as it progresses .  it doesn't .  so in the afterlife , chris learns that ( a ) people still don't meet god , ( b ) that our thoughts are reality , and ( c ) time does not exist there .  hmm . . .  i+ll grant one of those silly giant ideas for the sake of the narrative .   ( the " not meeting god " part still irks at me , but perhaps there was no possible way to film it and give it due respect ) .  that said , this alternate reality still makes no possible sense .  read on . . .  chris' wife commits suicide .  since suicides go to hell , chris would be separated from his wife forever .  the important question is , is heaven really heaven if you are separated from the one you love ?  good question .  and i like good thought-provoking questions .  i don+t like it when the filmmakers deviate from the question .  i _loathe_ it when the filmmakers deviate from the question so that the film becomes a popular rescue film , especially a rescue film which does not take its underlying premise seriously .  i _really_ loathe it when it+s story is no longer run by logic , but by special effects .  hey chris : did you forget ?  your thoughts are _real_ .  they are more _real_ than the physical world , according to the new-age screenplay .  so , why don+t you conjure up positive thoughts of annie , and let that run wild ?  and then she would appear before you , and you two would live in happy bliss for eternity ?  because there would be no movie , that+s why .  and albert the angel ( played by miscast cuba gooding , jr . ) says bluntly : " that+s fantasy . "  umm . . .  if your thoughts are more real than the physical , then fantasy is not fantasy , but real .  surely some eastern meditation specialist would be able to tell you that .  and if you happen to think that you are an unimaginative person , and that your thoughts aren't big enough to sustain you for eternity , well , in all due respect , that's why i don't subscribe to this theology .  all due respect .  another idea , based on " time , ( pause ) , does not exist here ! "  so chris , spend your eternity with annie , as she is on earth , reliving your favorite memories , or hang out with her when she was growing up .  you+ve got eternity : perhaps you can hang around long enough and learn not to freak her out .  and forcing her to write " i still exist " in her diary , imo , is just too tacky .  there are many other ideas , all of which are a hundred times better than what+s unraveled in the plot .  the great aforementioned question is sidetracked into gimmicky subplots that have been done before , and just come out stale .  most insulting is the subplot where important people in chris+ life appear in heaven differently than he expects , so when they finally show themselves , he realizes they were with him all along .  and when this happens , the film runs in slow motion , as if to build emotion .  _gag me with a spoon_ .  so the only things for me to like are sciorra+s effective performance , who rises far above this mundane material , and the special effects .  please note that while i enjoyed some of the visuals , i did not enjoy _all_ of them : some of the images looked like sandy duncan universe , everybody floating up and down in invisible strings .  it sounds like a joke , but it+s really true : i really tried to block out the dialogue , and figure out what music would best work as an alternative soundtrack .  my vote goes to a rare cd called " never say die " ( 1981 ) from petra , a christian rock group .  it+s pretty good , and they have a song about annie , who commits suicide .   ( it+s too late for annie/she+s gone away for good/there+s so much we'd have told her/and now we wish we could/but it+s too late . . . ) .  melancholic , yes .  depressing , yes .  but far more entertaining . . .  so , in case you don+t know , let me be straight .  suicide--bad .  _don+t do it_ .  no . no . no . ( got it ? --you  shouldn+t have to pay $7 . 50 to hear this in an awful robin williams schmaltzfest . ) 
pos@ in chocolat , a chocolate shop owner tells her customers to look into a spinning object of obscure textures , patterns , and lines , hoping she'll be able to foresee the kind of chocolate they'll most enjoy .  some scoff the idea , but everyone who gazes into the complexity of the spinning object winds up seeing something different than the next , revealing personality traits which the person may not have known they had before .  this can easily stand as a model for chocolat as a whole : on the surface , it appears to be a light , fluffy fable with no depth or true worth , but when one takes a second , deeper look , chocolat's true colors begin to shine through .  making a bold statement about organized religion and those who practice it , lasse hallstrom's chocolat is flawlessly acted and meticulously crafted-not to mention one of the best films of the year .  what gives chocolat its magic , much like hallstrom's 1999 winner of two academy awards , the cider house rules , is its willingness to say what's on its mind without holding back to prevent offending audiences .  the bold and honest message hallstrom conveys with chocolat will no doubt outrage a select group of viewers , but those who are willing to suspend their bitterness because they feel they are being intimidated or attacked should find themselves to be in agreement with what the film says about narrow-mindedness .  chocolat centers its story around the small french village of lansquenet , where majority rules , and the majority lives by only one law : religion .  the bulk of the townspeople ( with few exceptions ) are preparing for the sacred time of abstinence , lent , but when the independent thinking , seemingly non-religious vianne rocher ( juliette binoche ) and her daughter anouk ( victoire thivisol ) make the village their home , the people will be tempted beyond belief by the mouth-watering confections in the chocolate shop vianne opens .  many are predictably opposed and deeply offended by vianne's opening of the chocolate shop just in time for lent , especially the mayor , comte de reynaud ( a cartoon-like alfred molina ) , who will stop at nothing to put her out of business .  on the other hand , the shop is a delight to others , including the cranky armande voizin ( judi dench ) , who sits day by day in vianne's shop , telling the single mother about her unfortunate detached relationship with her grandson ( aurelien parent-koening ) , which comes as a result of his mother ( carrie-ann moss ) believing armande is a bad influence , as she does not hold the same , strict religious beliefs that she does .  also a fan of the chocolate is the nervous wreck josephine muscat , whose husband is constantly beating her , to whom vianne offers a home and befriends .  juliette binoche is charming and honest as vianne , genuinely capturing her character's determination to turn the narrow-minded townspeople into more happy , independent human beings , but most of chocolat's success is unquestionably a result of the remarkable performances of the supporting actresses .  lena olin , previously nominated for an oscar in 1989 , deserves her second nomination for her earnest , moving portrayal of a lost , scared woman torn between staying true to her battering , manipulative husband or leaving him to live the life which for which she longs .  judi dench is sharp , incisive , and occasionally greatly touching as armande voizin .  carrie ann-moss , in what is likely to be her first largely noticed ( and acclaimed ) role since the matrix , shows a more solid side of her acting skills not previously seen , crafting a character that the viewer both sympathizes with and despises simultaneously .  victoire thivisol shows much promise as anouk , a young girl hoping her always-on-the-move mother will eventually settle down .  a trade ad for chocolat sums up best the power the actresses have on screen with the tagline : " five extraordinary women , one extraordinary movie . "  that's not to say the men don't do their share , though : alfred molina makes for a sly and utterly repugnant antagonist , hugh o'conor adds quite a bit of comic relief as the priest who seems to not even know why he is who he is , and johnny depp gives a strong performance as the pirate roux , who enters the film late in the game and sparks the romantic interest of vianne .  the technical aspects of chocolat are strong across the board : lasse hallstrom directs his enchanting fable with great care , perfectly balancing the elements of each genre to be found within the film .  cinematographer roger pratt brings an atmospheric , fairy tale look to the film , and rachel portman's masterful score is her best and most memorable since the cider house rules .  chocolat , adapted by robert nelson jacobs from the joanne harris novel , is a wonderful little treat of a film , one that will most likely win over the hearts of audiences and the votes of academy members this winter , and the aggressive backing of miramax films assures the latter .  while not as powerful as the cider house rules , lasse hallstrom's chocolat is a film which works on all levels-as a drama , a comedy , a fable , a romance , and a fairy tale .  and it even lives up to its name : it is delicious to savor the taste of , easy to digest , and , like all excellent chocolate , it is memorable for days afterward .  the bottom line : chocolat is pure pleasure . 
neg@ working in the motion picture industry must be a constant source of frustration for a front-line african american actress like jada pinkett smith .  despite being one of the freshest talents available , pinkett smith has often been relegated to playing thankless supporting parts ( a low down dirty shame , the nutty professor ) .  the problem is , of course , that there aren't many good roles available for black women .  take away the likes of waiting to exhale , set it off , soul food , and eve's bayou , and all that's left is a chance to be someone's girlfriend , a local whore , or a murder victim .  as a result , for pinkett smith's first opportunity atop the marquee , she is stuck in a stupid , formulaic romantic comedy with the unpromising title of woo .  actually , woo , the latest directorial effort from daisy v . s .  mayer ( party girl ) , could have been worse than it is .  the film offers a few funny ( albeit juvenile ) moments and the on-screen relationship between pinkett smith's woo and tommy davidson's tim is appealing on those rare occasions when the two aren't forced to play it dumb for the sake of an endless barrage of cheap gags .  unfortunately , huge portions of the movie are insulting to the intelligence of anyone with a triple-digit i . q .  the situations are painfully contrived , the main characters are lifted right out of sit-coms , and the supporting players are so incredibly stupid that i wondered whether they all participated in some kind of " free lobotomy " lab experiment .  woo is a spontaneous , energetic young woman who has been looking for love in all the wrong places .  her latest relationship , with a testosterone-overdosed drug-dealer , came to an abrupt end when she refused to wear a beeper .  now , her transvestite/medium friend celestrial ( girlina ) predicts that she's about to meet mr . right , and that he'll be a virgo .  later that day , woo is given an opportunity to go out on a blind date with tim , a shy man with a penchant for neatness and order , who just happens to be a virgo .  it's not love at first sight , however .  things get off to a rocky start when tim makes an awkward pass , and they get even worse when the pair arrives at a swanky restaurant to enjoy a " quiet " dinner .  in the one-hundred year history of motion pictures , there have been a ton of bad " white " movies about mismatched lovers , so i suppose it's only fair that we get a " black " effort of the same low caliber .  as in all romantic comedies , we know from the beginning that woo and tim are going to end up together .  the question is , are their courtship rituals entertaining ?  in a good entry to the genre , the audience becomes caught up in the love story , no matter how familiar it is .  in woo , the constant reliance upon unfunny , moronic humor sinks the project .  for those who enjoy spotting continuity gaffes , there's a huge one in woo involving a corvette with a broken window that miraculously repairs itself ( added to that is the mystery of how the car looses its top ) .  sadly , that's one of the film's most enjoyable sequences , and the entertainment value is entirely unintentional .  despite exuding charm from every pore , there's little that pinkett smith and davidson can do to save their characters or david c . johnson's script .  since it misses the mark by so much , a better name for woo might have been whoops . 
pos@ what if one of our cities became the target for terror ?  what can we do ?  what can america really do about the increasing threat of terrorism ?  what basic human rights are we willing to sacrifice to prevent another oklahoma city disaster ?  so far america has been the leading nation , opposing the fundamentalist terrorists around the world .  it is the land of opportunities .  it is the land of freedom .  but what if it became the new target ?  this dark fantasy has unfortunately a very strong grounding in reality .  when a special branch of the united states military , under the command of general william devereaux ( bruce willis ) , takes prisoner suspected terrorist mastermind sheik ahmed bin talal , islamic fundamentalists across the world take notice .  the only warning the fbi receives is a single , cryptic message : " release him . "  then all hell breaks loose in new york .  a bus is destroyed , killing 25 civilians .  a broadway theater is bombed .  hostages are taken at a school .  as the wave of terrorist activity crests , the president must consider if the only way to save the city and break the grip of fear is to declare martial law .  devereaux argues against that eventuality , but is nevertheless ready to lead 10 , 000 men into action on american soil .  another person not in favor of martial law is anthony hubbard ( denzel washington ) , the fbi agent in charge of investigating the terrorist activities .  his staff is comprised of smart , energetic , intelligent men and women very much unlike the usual group o !  f moronic feds we're used to seeing in movies .  hubbard develops an uneasy alliance with cia agent elise kraft ( annette bening ) , whose department knows more about the situation than they're willing to reveal .  but the attacks escalate .  the fbi are helpless , chasing an invisible enemy .  the land is under siege .  they have lost control . . a  terror is coming from within . .  what's great about this film is that it is made as if holding up a mirror to life .  it reflects reality .  and that's why it makes such an impact .  edward zwick has created a clever , well written and terrifying thriller that may very well be one of the best films of the season .  the director manages to tell several stories simultaneously .  and so his film plays on several levels , never loosing focus on its main objective .  he is exploring the abuse of power , the distrustful relationships that exist between various segments of the u . s . government ( the army , the fbi , and the cia ) .  he takes a look at the complexities inherent when so many secrets and lies are involved .  the palestinian community in 1998 new york is treated exactly as japanese americans were during world war ii .  there are concentration camps and unlawful interments , all in the name of the " greater good . "  in the latter part of the film the land of opportunities looses its heart and soul -- freedom .  was that what the terror !  ists really wanted ?  this film has evoked protests and objections from the arab-american population in the u . s . and n . y . especially .  but to me these protests seem unnecessary .  zwick is careful to not step over the line and make the palestinians typical hollywood bad guys .  the script is therefore wonderfully balanced .  agent hubbard's best friend and loyal colleague frank haddad ( tony shalhoub ) is lebanese-american .  and it is quite often you hear lines such as " my first boyfriend was palestinian .  they seduce you with their suffering " or " they love this country as much as we do . "  but no matter how you twist this matter , you won't get away from the fact that when it comes to world wide terrorism it is arab-speaking population who are in the great majority .  more to the point , the siege demonstrates the injustice of blanket condemnation of any ethnic group by depicting the unfair treatment of all arab-americans by the u . s . military .  and thus this film does not serve as a source for discrimination in any !  way .  denzel washington is dashing as always .  in this role he is much more determined and stronger than usual .  anette bening is enjoyable and believable as a shadowy cia operative who prefers espionage , a network of snitches and seduction to gather information . .  bruce willis is terrifying as the sadist , hungry for power , that never looses his connection with the audience , since his point of view is not too hard to understand .  the film is elegantly shaped .  the scenes are easily floating into each other and the film never seems overlong .  zwick knows exactly how to provoke tension , horror and emotions and does it with a rarely observed professionalism .  he tightens the intensity as the events progress .  and when a plot twist comes , it actually is surprising .  it is not a film drained in patriotism , like the work of roland emerich .  nor is it a film that portrays explosions purely for entertainment values .  it is a daring picture that has courage enough to undertake such a risky story and difficult journey .  it has courage enough to get involved in politics .  it questions our foreign policies , mentality and defense .  i must admit that it ends rather disappointing , as the director turns the patriotism way up and innovation down .  but despite of that , it is certainly an intelligent and thrilling film that provokes emotions and thoughts ; a virtue that few summer films can boast of .   " this is the u . s . army .  it's a broadsword , not a scalpel .  believe me , you do not want us in an american city " - gen . william devereaux , " the siege " 
neg@ capsule : combine one quart of raiders of the lost ark , a dash of a jackie chan movie ( sans jackie ) , two teaspoons of gun- and swordplay , and a dollop of cgi .  simmer for 100 minutes .  yields : zilch .  the phantom is a depressing and tired retread of so many earlier , better movies that after the fifteen-minute mark i started cataloguing them out loud .  it's hard to make a good action-adventure movie that doesn't simply recycle its predecessors , and i've seen movies that even at least did the recycling gracefully .  the phantom , allegedly based on the long-running comic of the same name , doesn't even bother to be graceful .  it's a stupid and incompetent movie in too many ways to list , but i'll try .  the film opens up with a " prelude " sequence that looks like it was slashed to ribbons in the editing and then given a heavy voice-over to compensate for whatever got thrown out .  we go from there to a jungle sequence that , i swear to god , recycles the truck-chase scene from raiders of the lost ark note-for-note , possibly even shot-for-shot , right down to the moment where indy wrenched open the door and slung one of the drivers out into the brush -- and then goes on to rip off the rope-bridge scene from " sorcerer " as well !  sorcerer , as you may well remember , was a remake of a french movie , the wages of fear , in which a bunch of lowlifes were paid piles of money to drive a truck loaded with nitro through horrible jungle terrain .  both versions of that movie were far more interesting than this flick , but i've got my job to do , so back to the salt mines we go .  anyway , the cinematic theft doesn't stop there .  or at least the lack of inspiration .  there isn't a single thing here we haven't seen , and it's not given to us in a way that remotely evokes our interest .  we have ( where's my list ? )  a bad girl , a tough good girl , a secret cave hideaway ( which seems inspired more by dr .  no than anything else ) , a boardroom meeting that drips with greed and venality , magical artifacts of terrible power , and cary-hiroyuki tagawa wasted in another stupid role where he gets to wear a fu manchu mustache and sneer a lot and generally humiliate himself .  what else is there ?  the plot is a waste of time .  the sets alternate between big but hokey -- and tiny and still hokey .  there are lines in the script that are just begging to be mst3ked -- and i'm sure once mike and the 'bots get the cash , they'll stick it on their sked .  the only thing in the movie worth noting is billy zane -- he's a good actor , and he tries very hard , even when the script is sending him down one dead alley of a scene after another .  all i can say is that i pray this isn't the beginning of the end for him -- although it sure looks like the final nail in the coffin for the comic-book super-hero movie . 
pos@ earlier this year , the movie holy man opened to a meager box office receipt and to indifference from audiences and critics .  a real charmer of a movie , it's possible that the subject matter was too hip or trendy to attract any real audience .  now , at the end of 1998 , comes waking ned devine , a comedy which inspires the same vein of easygoing laughter .  there's no substantial difference between the two other than a more refined atmosphere -- they strike all the same chords -- but still , ned devine is a movie worth seeing .  the plot is interesting and robust : the latest lottery winner is ned devine ( jimmy keogh ) , of tullymore , ireland .  ned's prize is over six million pounds , but the shock of winning killed the poor old man , and the check remains unclaimed .  enter jackie o'shea ( ian bannen ) and michael o'sullivan ( david kelly ) , the only two residents who are aware the winner is in their village .  the two men eventually find the ticket , and decide that if michael can convince the lotto authorities that he's actually ned , the entire town can reap the benefits ; their only adversary is an ancient old woman ( eileen dromey ) who sees more profit in reporting the fraud .  ian bannen and david kelly truly shine as jackie and michael .  jackie , stocky and large , is the brains behind the operation ; michael , scrawny and short , is the method man .  the two contrast each other delightfully , and at the same time remain sympathetic to the audience .  every viewer is sure to like both of them .  there are other minor subplots included as well , such as an unlikely romance between a local girl and the town pig farmer .  this appears quite inconsequential until the end , and even with a startling revelation it's a tad bit unnecessary .  overall , waking ned devine has a predictable outcome , and plot twists are never really taken seriously .  the ending , a very hilarious and very ironic twist of fate , somehow fits with the twisted sense of humor the movie exhibits throughout .  the kirk jones script is indeed off-the-cuff .  in a way , waking ned devine is exactly like the class of people it presents : warm , friendly , outgoing , and jovial .  it's the perfect kind of comedy , a real gem of a tale that sets up a trivial plot outline by which to introduce a sympathetic cast of characters and a string of jokes .  there's nothing remotely serious or grounded for more than a moment or two , because the spirit of ned devine is a lighthearted one .  indeed , it's one of the year's best feel-good movies -- 91 minutes of unrestrained joy that no one should miss . 
neg@  " shagadellic ! " , " groovy , baby ! "   " smashing ! "  adorn the 1/4 page ad for this movie tabbed as " the #1 comedy in america " as of may 8th .  did we attend the same movie ? !  at 87 minutes it seemed overlong , like a snl skit on steroids , and at any length it seemed unfunny .  yes , the sets and costumes were an interesting exaggeration of 60s pop frills , and yes , the concept , dealing with a 60s secret agent/pop icon ( played by myers ) awakened from his cryogenic slumber to battle his arch enemy ( dr .  evil , also played by myers ) in the present day , had a great deal of potential .  fun costumes and scenery and potential do not a movie make so lets throw in a hefty dose of bathroom humor .  don't get me wrong , i like a good " bubbles in the bathtub joke " as much as the next person , but to have this type of humor be the funniest thing about your movie is a waste of yuor talent and my money .  but , the way things work these days in the movie business , all a film has to do is call itself the funniest and people will believe it .  i do give this film stars because of the sets , costumes , and sadly , unmet potential . 
pos@ at one point during brian de palma's crime epic scarface , the radiant michelle pfeiffer turns to a ranting al pacino and pops a question that the audience has no doubt been wanting to ask for themselves : " can't you stop saying 'fuck' all the time ? "  fucking good question , that .  it may not be an honour that instills the filmmakers with pride , but as far as i can tell oliver stone's script contains the said expletitive more times than any other film in cinema history .  yet it would be a shame if bad language is all de palma's scarface is remembered for , because this is a damn fine gangstar flick .  the overall structure is similar to howard hawks' 1932 original , but this time the scene has switched to miami , florida and our anti-hero's chosen vice is cocaine traffiking .  pacino , sporting a thick cuban accent , gives one the best performances of his career ( golden globe nominated ) as tony montana , a cuban refugee with a criminal past who flees castro and comes to america to live the american dream .  and live it out he does , with lashings of violence , abuse , murder and the funny white powder .  from his earliest jobs as a drug runner for various middlemen , tony montana makes it clear to everyone he meets that he's not a man to be fucked ( sorry ) .  soon he's the king of the cocaine heap , but his hot head and an increasingly out of control drug addiction prove his undoing .   " never do your own stash " , warns one character early in the film .  as sure as night follows day , the emperor of miami eventually falls .  writer oliver stone and director brian de palma make an explosive combination here .  stone's script offers solid storytelling and some fine character development .  montana is fascinating ; uneducated but calculating , a straight shooter who speaks from the heart ; an ambitious , violent man yet one with a conscience .  a man fiercely protective of his beautiful 20 year old sister , not wanting her to be sucked into the glitzy , dangerous world which he inhabits .  pacino is dynamite , taking to the role with a brooding , bristling energy which in his more recent films has often degenerated into just simple overracting .  pfeiffer also registers strongly as the gangstar mole with no inner life .  only once does tony express real affection for her and his desire to have children , and even then you sense all he really wants is a regular screw and a beautiful object to show off to his friends , and she's happy to oblige .  this isn't as meaty a role for pfieffer as sharon stone's was in casino , but its an effective one nonetheless and she aquits herself well .  as director , de palma sets up a number of dramatic scenes with his typical stylistic brauva .  the escalating tension he creates in various mob situations - a drug deal gone wrong , an assination attempt - is often thrilling , and in this respect he is every bit the equal of scorese and coppola .  where he differs from , say , coppola's godfather trilogy is in his overall treatment .  coppola gives his crime sagas an operatic sweep , whereas in scarface de palma opts for a grittier feel .  and it perfectly suits the material .  the only major botch is giorgio moroder's mostly crap synthesier score .  it's just not right , and unfortunately compromises the impact of some otherwise good scenes .  as expected , scarface is very violent at times , but you shouldn't be watching gangster movies if that upsets you .  at over two and a half hours in length it's a true epic , and if you're a fan of the genre you'll love f * * k-filled minute of it . 
neg@ this is the kind of movie that makes one appreciate disney's live- action george of the jungle .  tarzan and the lost city , the latest attempt to bring edgar rice burrough's legendary hero to the big screen , is one of the most inept and ill-timed of any tarzan adventure so far .  badly conceived and poorly executed , tarzan and the lost city appears headed for a quick trip to video store shelves .  i have no idea why the producers chose now to bring back tarzan ; it's not as if there are legions of new fans clamoring for his next movie .  furthermore , it's even more curious that this film is rated pg , which , by definition , rules out any sex or explicit violence .  and , while i'm not advocating the excesses embraced by the 1981 bo derek version of the story , tarzan deserves a slightly more adult approach than the one used in the embarrassing production .  of course , no tweaking of the content to change the rating could have saved tarzan and the lost city , since the film's troubles originated with the script and were propagated all the way down the line .  imagine george of the jungle stripped of all ( intentional ) humor , and you have a fair idea of what this tarzan is like .  with its uninspired action and tepid adventure sequences , the film barely registers a pulse .  anyone in search of a relatively entertaining , family jungle adventure should check out the 1994 version of the jungle book , which uses the same basic elements to much better effect .  the only worthwhile element of tarzan and the lost city is the pretty scenery ( which , unfortunately , includes the two lead actors ) .  the film doesn't attempt to re-tell the origin story ? the thinking is that it has been done often enough .  instead , tarzan and the lost city introduces us to lord graystoke a . k . a . john clayton a . k . a . tarzan the ape man ( casper van dien ) several days before his marriage to lady jane porter ( jane march ) .  he is living happily in england , enjoying the benefits of being a land-owning noble .  meanwhile , in central africa , the dastardly nigel ravens ( steven waddington ) , a self-proclaimed scholar and explorer , believes he has found the way to the lost city of opar , which he calls the cradle of civilization .  on the way there , he and his band of mercenaries do all sorts of nasty things , like burning native villages , to earn the wrath of the locals .  one shaman , determined to stop ravens from unearthing opal , sends a mystical message to tarzan for help .  with lady jane following close behind , he returns to the jungle where he was born .  its patently obvious that casper van dien ( one of the pretty-boy heroes of starship troopers ) was not hired on the basis of his acting ability .  with his plastic facial expressions , monotone voice , and complete inability to make convincing animal noises , his range rivals that of steven seagal .  his pecs , however , are impressive , and director carl schenkel makes sure that he is given every opportunity to show them off .  jane march , on the other hand , has to keep her shirt on , which may be a first for her .  some six years ago , march give a solid performance in jean jacques annaud's steamy the lover .  since then , she made the career-killing decision of appearing opposite bruce willis in the color of night , which exploited her every acting defiency .  tarzan continues this trend .  march may be attractive , but , at least judging by this performance , she can't act .  meanwhile , steven waddington has serious trouble summoning up the menace necessary to be a really detestable bad guy .  instead , he turns out to be little more than a nuisance .  the story line is pure formula , which has largely been true throughout the years for almost all of the tarzan movies .  the problem is that this one seems so childish and lifeless .  the romantic elements are all contrived ? in fact , lady jane's presence is necessary only so she can be captured and subsequently rescued by her buff fiance .  the special effects are truly bottom-of-the-barrel ( including some laughably bad men in ape costumes ? apparently , animatronics were too expensive for this production ) .  and , of course , as with all jungle movies , there are the obligatory cute animals .  over the years , the legend of tarzan has been one of the most popular sources for film series material .  the most famous ape man was johnny weismuller , but no less than two dozen other actors have essayed the part ( including gordon scott , who is widely believed to be the best actor to tackle the role ) .  weismuller made 12 tarzan features ; van dien will probably fall 11 short of that number .  and , having seen tarzan and the lost city , i would argue that the movie-going public would have been well served if he had missed by 12 . 
pos@ this sunday afternoon i had the priviledge of attending a private screening at the sony astor cinema in new york city , of james cameron's most heralded film , titanic .  postponed from last summer , with an escalated budget that makes it the most expensive movie in history , this was one film i was eager to preview .  so , is this movie going to sink or swim this holiday ?  my best guess . . . . it will sink , though with many awards attatched to its hull .  no doubt , titanic is the most elaborate disaster movie ever made .  it boasts the most amazing effects that i have ever seen done to date .  to see a ship fall apart , with actual people running across the ship , flying across the deck , and falling to the water , is just amazing to look at .  the effects are so stunningly realistic , you would swear you were looking at actual footage .  but titanic is more than a disaster movie , and that's where the problem lies .  there is a love story attatched that nearly ruins the entire premise .  i'll give a capsule summary of the story without spoiling anything for you :  the film begins with a modern day excavation of sorts of the sunken titanic .  we see actual footage of the sunken ship , as cammeron had set up special cameras to film the wreckage on the ocean floor .  bill paxton leads the expedition , in search of sunken treasure .  what he finds instead , leads him to a mysterious old woman who recounts her tale of the titanic voyage .  we meet rose ( kate winslet ) , a young woman , who comes from an upper-class family .  rose is to be wed to a man she does not love .  we meet jack ( leonardo dicaprio ) , a young man , who comes from a poor financial background , and wins a ticket aboard the titanic , in a poker game .  the two meet under interesting circumstances , and the love story begins .  add in a jealous fiance , and a not-so-nice law officer played by david warner , and you have a story that , well , gets a bit overplayed and oversappy .  i must add , at this point , that the most likeable character in the movie is played by kathy bates , as a woman with " new money " who is a lot less uptight than the other rich folk on the ship .  she is a pleasure to see on screen .  when the ship does hit the iceberg at exactly 1 : 40 into the film , and eventually sinks , you never really feel for any of these characters .  the film is just loaded with unlikeable rich snobs and other folk you never really get a grasp on .  the effects are tremendous .  from the roars of gears and pumps in the engine room , to a doomed ship cracking at the seams , this is an effects picture that looks and sounds like no other .  we saw titanic in dolby digital surround , and by far , it is the best sounding movie i have ever seen .  my friend commented it was the best sound mix he has ever heard .  when people are in the water , at film's end , you are surrounded by the voices of lost soles .  titanic runs far too long .  the movie is 3 hours and 15 minutes in length .  and , while most of the first 2 . 5 hours runs very fast and well-paced , the final 45 minutes almost comes to a sudden stop , and you realize that this sappy love story has to finish itself out before the movie finally ends .  don't get me wrong about titanic . . . . it's  not a bad as i am making it out to be .  it really is an exceptionaly well-made film .  the costumes and sets are incredible , and true to the time period .  the ship is painstakingly created exactly true to form , as we see actual pictures of the modern-day wreckage , transformed into the movie depiction .  this film will certainly win on effects , costume , set design and sound .  cameron has certainly made his best film to date .  unfortunately , titanic is not a best picture candidate .  it just doesn't have a strong supporting story .  it's an exceptional disaster film with sappy filler inside .  it just doesn't have the emotional impact that i suspect mr . cameron was shooting for .  i predict that titanic will open to likeable reviews .  it is a film worth seeing .  i predict that it will only do moderately well at the box office .  with its extreme running time , and lack of enough robust to get substantial word-of-mouth , i expect that it will do even better on home video .  this will certainly be the definitive ac3 movie for all you home theater enthusiasts .  titanic opens december 19th , and is released by paramount pictures and twentieth century-fox .  i give titanic 3 stars ( .  that's not bad .  ron epstein  riginally posted in home theater forum === 
neg@ making your first feature film ain't easy .  assemble a decent , if not , strong cast , as writer/director robert moresco has done with one eyed king , and you're already ahead of the game .  but rehash old plot lines , tired dialogue , and standard clich ? s , and a well-intentioned effort such as this one could jeopardize your chance at a second feature film .  how many more movies do we need about a rough neighborhood full of lifelong friends hopelessly turned to crime or worse ?  the enormous catalog of such movies might dissuade a filmmaker from making yet another , but here we have it .  again .  five irish kids in nyc's hell's kitchen make an overemotional pact over some stolen rings on an anonymous rooftop .  with teary music .  and slow motion .  in the film's first scene .  the kids grow up to be fairly worthless adults , unable or unwilling to make their way out of the heat of the kitchen .  leading the clueless pack is william baldwin as a good-hearted guy who watches out for his buddies and is in tight with local mob head armand assante .  i'd like to say that his character gets involved over his head in some sort of blah , blah , blah , but all we seem to get are little tastes of possible plot points .  he's concerned about buddy jason gedrick's heroin abuse .  he sticks up for jim breuer after he impregnates baldwin's character's sister .  he looks into who might be pushing the most moronic-looking counterfeit cash ever made ( a genuinely funny touch ) .  but none of this ever really amounts to anything .  it seems that moresco's greater concern is to provide that intangible " slice of life " , that flavor of the neighborhood that everyone's been trying to evoke since scorsese's early work .  so , we get the drunk guys , hugging and singing together at the local bar , to prove to us that they really love each other .   ( do people actually do this ! ? )  we get a lot of tough street talk -- usually mumbled for effect -- and a whole lot of the f-word , whether it sounds like it fits or not .  we also get a handful of good actors in small roles that seem to lack purpose .  bruno kirby , chazz palminteri , you know , guys you've seen in movies just like this one before .  assante is intelligent casting as the man that everyone fears , and baldwin's performance is adequate , but most of the rest of the cast jump into the tough guy persona so thoroughly that it's almost funny .  moresco , a theater guy and sometimes tv writer ( including the series falcone ) , obviously labored over this one as anyone might a first child , but the content is probably too personal .  as a result , the movie's style is heavy-handed , in need of a considerable amount of toning down .  nearly every time an action by the grown up gang recalls something they did as kids , moresco reminds us -- boy does he remind us .  with slow dissolves to the earlier scene , running in slow motion , complete with dialogue from the present , just in case we don't comprehend the link to the past .  moresco needs to either trust his audience's intelligence , or have more faith in his own presentation rather than beat us over the head with it .  his next project should have a little more personal distance , and a lot more subtlety .  if he actually gets that chance .  reviewed as part of our 2001 boston film festival coverage ( feature story coming soon ) . 
pos@ urban legend surprised me .  based on the last few films the genre has produced ( including but not exclusive to the likes of i know what you did last summer , disturbing behavior and the disappointing halloween : h20 ) , i was positive that i was in store for another mildly entertaining but silly and ultimately boring rehash of the scream phenomena .  thankfully , legend rose above it's soggy premise to become not only a hip , scary and stylish entertainment , but also what will probably become one of the best films of the year .  you're all familiar with the plot ; a bunch of overly horny teenagers get systematically slaughtered by a masked maniac who's identity is not revealed until the closing moments of the film when it turns out to be , you guessed it ; everybody's favorite veteran of the whodunit flicks . . . the  only person you didn't suspect !  however , just because legend doesn't really break any new ground as far as literary or even technical achievements go does not mean that it can't qualify as first-class entertainment .  it was , believe it or not , one of the funnest times i've had at the movies all year .  the thing is , i'm not really sure what made this particular stab ( pardon the pun ) at the genre seem so fresh and alive .  maybe it was the above-par performances by the movie's two leads ( jared leto and " cybil " actress alicia witt ) .  or , it could have been the on- target direction by jamie blanks .  more likely , though , it was because of the inspired premise .  i don't think i need to tell you that a killer hacking people up ala urban folklore is much more frightening than a killer fisherman .  urban legend begins with a sequence that reminded me of the classic scream opener , not so much in plotting as in attention to detail that makes for an absolutely chilling teaser for the rest of the film .  a pretty young coed is driving down a deserted road when ( gasp ! ) a gas problem ( hee-hee ) forces her to stop at an equally deserted gas station for a refill .  one problem , though .  would you want to stop at a station run by brad dourif ?  i thought not .  predictably , the attendant ends up coaxing her into the main building to sort out a problem with the credit card company .  it's odd , though , when you pick up a phone to realize that nobody's on the other line .  naturally , the potential victim escapes into her car and drives off .  and the when we least expect it . . . whack ! ! !  a decapitation .  it turns out that the creepy looking attendant was just trying to warn her about the maniac in the back seat of the car .  so who is it this time ?  the obvious candidate is the slightly off-kilter professor at the college the girl went to ( none other than freddy kruger himself , robert englund ) , who teaches a class on urban legends .  a-ha .  or could it be the fame-hungry local journalist ( leto ) looking for a meaty story to put on his resume ?  like all movies of this nature , one of the chief pleasures is trying to guess whodunit .  and it turns out to be , of course , the one you didn't suspect .  i'm not going to pretend urban legend is anything more than it is , but i must give credit where credit is due .  and this flick definitely deserves credit for being what not many other recent horror films have been . . . fun .   * complimentary movie ticket courtesy of valley cinemas in lodi , ca 
neg@  * this review contains spoilers * as with most of her films , director amy heckerling's latest , loser , seesaws between unpleasant and artificial , and is sometimes both at once .  when she tackles big issues , such as abortion in fast times at ridgemont high , it's impossible to tell whether she's being matter-of-fact or glib about them ( they carry an almost documentary starkness ) , but whatever the case , she continually refuses to comment politically .  such is the sitcom tendency of her work : to jeopardize the innocence of her characters and then hit the reset button .  this fear of drama soured me on fast times . . . , look who's talking , clueless , and now loser , in which ms . heckerling also demonstrates , for the first time , zero affinity for the milieu .  has anyone , for instance , ever met a girl in the stylistic vein of mena suvari's dora ?  attired in black thrift , her eye shadow smeared to racoon chic and her bangy red hair barely contained by girlish clips , she accepts the label of goth , but no self-respecting goth girl ever admitted to digging , as dora does , those geriatric rockers everclear , nor willingly went anywhere with a six-pack-wielding fratboy stranger .  the mechanics of loser's tired old introvert-boy-falls-for-extrovert-girl plot drive its protagonists into cultural non-specificity , so that they become even less than stereotypes .  they become walking wardrobes .  small-town transplant paul ( a strangely static jason biggs ) , our eponymous hero , always wears his woolly hunter's cap with flaps covering the ears , and beneath it rests a parted moptop that couldn't scream " shemp " ( the lame stooge ) wig louder .  he has three smug-looking roommates ( the one-dimensional trio is not supposed to be brothers , but they share similar facial features , including and especially mouths ) , and their fashion sense is incomprehensibly glam .  though they're not overtly transvestites , heckerling seems to be equating flamboyance with villainy ; how very cruising of her .   ( the dormies conspire to evict paul and regularly molest women they have drugged .  dora ignorantly downs one of their date rape potions .  unfortunately , either heckerling or the studio is too cowardly to admit if she was subsequently violated . )  when paul rescues dora from said narcotic scare , he learns that she is dating their unctuous european lit professor edward alcott ( superb greg kinnear ) .  although paul's already in love with dora by this point , as is bound to happen to losers when pretty girls address them by name , he gets altruistic and pretends the flowers he bought her are actually from alcott .  she's thrilled , but nevertheless spends a few days at paul's to recuperate ; the two bond over emergency kitten surgery and a broadway play ( " cabaret " ) , and just when paul's got in his head that she's starting to love him back in that non-friendly way , she decides to become alcott's live-in girlfriend .  cue precious hommage to the graduate , shots of paul drifting around berkeley--er . . .   ( aside : simon & garfunkel's " parsley , sage , rosemary & thyme " should never have been allowed in another motion picture . )  heckerling has a lot in common with nora " you've got mail " ephron , the only other prominent chick directing comedies today , in that neither has any use for strong-willed women .  men continue to trod on dora until the bitter end ( in the final scene , she gives paul a big smooch after he blurts out his feelings in what amounts to a creepy ultimatum ) , and dora ultimately shrugs off being drugged against her will--mere hours after paul hints to her that she was poisoned , she's cheerily redecorating his apartment .   ( heckerling is so laissez-faire about the issue in general that she reserves the comeuppance of the would-be rapists for jokey epilogue titles . )  goth veneer aside , there are an awful lot of girls out there who behave as erratically as dora , and enough angry young dude filmmakers to make movies about them .  heckerling misses her shot at having dora transform herself into a role model , and while such arcs may not be heckerling's social responsibility , it is a privilege i would have taken advantage of if i were in her shoes .   ( consider , too , that dora is the film's sole female principal . )  not that loser is worth contemplating this seriously--god knows heckerling didn't .  that is her hallmark .   ( --- for more first-run , dvd , and books-about-movies reviews , plus contests and the proverbial " more ! " ,  visit 'film freak central , ' ! http : //filmfreakcentral . net  --- ) 
pos@ the postman delivers but not first class  the postman a film review by michael redman copyright 1997 by michael redman  [warning : my opinion of this film is definitely in the minority of reviewers perhaps because it hits so many of my cinematic buttons : post-apocalypse stories , hope in a desperate situation , grassroots uprisings and kevin costner .  even worse , i thought that " waterworld " was watchable .  read the following with those particular grains of salt . ]  it's the year 2013 and things have fallen apart .  due to a world war in the late nineties , the resulting three-year winter and a devastating plague , life in the former united states has been reduced to isolated primitive fiefdoms .  although this is the future , it looks like a western .  as the film opens , kevin costner ( his character's name is never revealed ) is wandering the utah wastelands with only his mule bill for company .  giving extraordinarily bad shakespearean performances in exchange for food and lodging , costner is an outsider in a land of outsiders .  running into even worse luck , he is forcibly conscripted into the racially pure holnist army of general bethlehem ( will patton ) .  the rag-tag retro-futuristic cavalry is the descendent of militia groups and is even called the " clan "  after a brutal boot camp , he ( and you can see this coming a mile away ) escapes .  taking shelter in a wrecked postal truck , he liberates the uniform and mail bag from the skeleton in the cab who no longer has a use for either .  once he reaches oregon , land of beautiful women , bright youngsters and rock and roll ; he pretends to be a representative from the " restored congress of the united states of america " .  this scam gets him inside the walled towns where the promise of mail delivery renews optimism in the hearts of the inhabitants .  food and other opportunities come his way in the form of spirited abby ( olivia williams ) who wants him to father a child because her husband is sterile .  shortly her husband is killed by bethlehem and she and the postman ( as costner is referred to for the rest of the film ) become a reluctant item .  although the postman knows he's running a fraud , the concept of renewed communications sets the kids' imagination afire ( especially ford lincoln mercury ( larenz tate ) , his second-in-command ) and they form a new pony express dedicated to getting the mail through .  the revived postal service doubles as an army to fight the holnists' tyranny .  the postman has become a symbol for hope in a rube goldberg manner .  although the movie appeals to my sensibilities , there are so many things wrong with it that they can hardly be counted .  it's derivitive of costner's own " waterworld " and clint eastwood westerns .  there's little here that we haven't seen dozens of times before .  the film is often down-right corny .  a scene where the postman is on horseback and grabs a letter from the hands of a bright-eyed child is embarrassing in its slow-motion banality .  the film's final few minutes should have been left on the cutting room floor .  despite the film's excessive three hour length , several things are never explained .  what was the war about ?  how did civilization change so rapidly ?  everyone has horses : where did all they come from ?  the " law of eights " that bethlehem lives by seems to have its origins somewhere beyond the film , but where ?  are we to believe that the rest of the world is in the same shape and hasn't made their way west to help or conquer ?  there is some jumbled symbolism here that doesn't appear to make sense .  the tale is obviously saying that communication can defeat evil in much the same way that the internet has the potential to topple governments , but beyond that there are some oddities .  the evil army is called " holnists " which sounds coincidentally like the new age " holism " , but why ?  is it another coincidence that it takes place in 2013 , just one year after many ancient prophesies ( including the ending of the mayan calendar ) predict a new world for mankind ?  why is the general named " bethlehem " ?  there seems to be some reason for that , but what ?  sometimes the movie feels like a joke .  an army of postal workers armed with guns ?  considering the headlines of recent years , it takes a tremendous leap of faith to cheer for these guys .  it's even more difficult to accept those re-powering the federal government as the heroes .  given the current climate of the country and the distrust of big government , it's asking a lot for the audience to get behind the film's nationalism .  even with its numerous flaws , the movie all comes together , if only for those who have the same weaknesses that i have .  it's doubtful that " the postman " is going to find much of an audience , but a few of us are going to have a good time .  besides we're all awaiting the fall of civilization caused by the year 2000 millennium computer bug .   ( michael redman has written this column for over 22 years and would like to announce that the " michael redman " arrested near indianapolis last week for accepting an illicit package from federal express is , to the best of his knowledge , not him .  perhaps this similarly-named person should have used kevin costner's postal service . ) 
neg@  " return to horror high , " wants to be a couple different types of movies at once .  the film tells the story of a low-budget horror movie being filmed at the closed-down crippen high , a school where a group of serial murders took place five years before .  but what the cast and crew don't know is that a real killer , maybe the same one that was never apprehended , is going into action again .  on one level , " return to horror high " is a slasher movie , and it is at this level that it works the best on .  watching the film , which was made in 1987 , i couldn't help but take notice that the killer's costume was almost identital to that of the ghostface in , " scream , " and " scream 2 . "  on another level , the film wants to be a slapstick comedy , and there are many hints of this throughout .  unfortunately , most of these jokes fall flat .  and the last thing the film wants to be is a " behind-the-scenes " look at an exploitation film being made .  the only problem is that , while much of it is supposed to be from the movie itself being made , no cameras are shown filming it , thus making it far more confusing than it had to be .  and to top it all off , the " twist " ending makes very little to no sense whatsoever , and so we are basically left with feeling as if we wasted our time .  there are story developments that are beyond ludicrous , and plot holes you could drive a winnebago through .  if you see the film , or have seen it , you'll know what i mean .  the premise of " return to horror high , " is admittedly pretty crafty , and i liked the atmosphere of the school , which is where the whole thing takes place .  but director froehlich , judging from this movie , is an incompetent director , except for being able to film the seldom suspeneful scene .  well , come to think of it , there is only one scene that is actually scary , and it has to do with two actors being locked in a room as the killer tries to break in .  but other than that two-minute distraction , " return to horror high , " is certainly no great shake .  note : look for george clooney in a supporting role as one of the actors on the film .  and strangely enough , he is the first character to get the ax . . . literally . 
pos@ life is beautiful is a rare treat : a lighthearted comedy that tackles a very serious subject without committing the sins of being disrespectful , or , even worse , humorless .  it combines a charming romance with a dash of farce , stirs in a little poignancy , and ends up a very enjoyable movie .  it's an italian film , but don't let that discourage you .  subtitle-phobes will be missing a wonderful experience .  life is beautiful opens as a sweet romantic comedy , with the clownish , but good natured guido ( roberto benigni ) arriving in a rustic italian town to work as a waiter for his uncle .  the year is 1939 , and guido literally stumbles into the girl of his dreams , dora ( nicoletta braschi ) .  their romance seems to be picture perfect , with only one stumbling block : she's already engaged to another man .  can guido overcome the odds and win his girl ?  what do you think ?  however , five years later , things have taken a turn for the worse in italy .  the fascists have stepped up their race initiatives , which is bad news for the jewish guido and his new son giosue ( giorgio cantarini ) , who are rounded up and shipped off to a concentration camp .  unable to protect his boy in any other way , guido attempts to shield his young son from the horrors of the labor camp .  he pretends that everything is all an elaborate game , with points awarded for such tasks as hiding , being brave and being very very quiet .  as you can tell from the description , life is beautiful has two very different tones , but manages to excel at both of them .  as a romantic comedy , it is sweet and funny .  as a bittersweet tale of hope amid despair , it is touching .  roberto benigni's work here has been compared with some of the best of chaplin's , and it is easy to see why .  he is able to run the gamut of comic expression , from slapstick to farce , with a warm-hearted feeling that celebrates his downtrodden hero's " triumph of the underdog " spirit .  life is beautiful treads a thin line when it turns its attentions to the holocaust .  however , it is able to successfully navigate the minefield , without demeaning the gravity of the horrors involved , nor without losing its humorous edge that allows you to smile through the tears .  with life is beautiful , benigni has created a triumphant , but bittersweet comedy .  it's quite simply one of the most enjoyable times i've had at the movies this year . 
neg@ under any other circumstances , i would not be discussing the ending of a film to the extent that i will in this particular review .  however , in order to fully explain exactly how and why this movie is so awful , a minute dissection of the ending is necessary .  even though i will not reveal the details of the last scenes , do proceed at your own risk .  the movie opens ( quite poorly , i might add ) as child psychologist malcolm crowe ( bruce willis , looking like he was dragged out of his trailer at the wee hours of the morning to shoot each scene ) and his wife are intruded upon by one of malcolm's past patients .  distraught , the suicidal man ( a cameo by new kid on the block donnie wahlberg ) shoots malcolm and then turns the gun on himself .  cut to the " next fall " , as we find the good doctor quietly observing his latest case , a trouble young man named cole ( haley joel osment , one of the only child actors in a while i didn't want to bludgeoned over the head with a blunt instrument ) .  after about 45 minutes of seemingly unrelated freak occurrences , we learn that cole has " the sixth sense " , the gift of being able to communicate with the dead .  and this , as they say , is where the healing begins .  the sixth sense and its unexpected popularity is founded upon a twist ending that i knew going into the film ( one of roger ebert's colleges was kind enough to give it away on a recent segment of " siskel and ebert " ) .  although i was at first enraged that an established film critic could so callously ruin a film for thousands of patrons , i soon realized that this turn of events could in fact have been a blessing in disguise ; i've always been a sucker for surprise endings ( my favorite movie is the usual suspects ) and rarely dislike a film that sports one .  here , since i knew the major plot twist that was coming at the film's conclusion , the possibly of being bamboozled into loving a bad movie solely because of its ending ( something i've fallen victim to in the past ) was eliminated .  and indeed , my viewing of the sixth sense did prove to be quite an enlightening experiment .  stripped of the element of surprise , the film was put to the task of showing what it really had , instead of simply hiding behind a shocking conclusion .  after seeing its true colors , i came to the conclusion that the sixth sense is , despite what the many champions of the movie may say , void of any real power .  it's a neat concept , but not one that justifies being made into a feature-length movie .  in fact , the sixth sense relies so strongly on its finale that the rest of the film develops as a sort of prelude to the supposedly earth-shattering revelation that is yet to come .  and when the final moments do come , it's a huge letdown ; the end makes no sense at all .  it stupefied me with the heights of its ineptitude and is completely idiotic on a fundamental and very rare level .  i won't go into any details , but suffice to say that , as far as i can tell , it negates to rest of the movie to such an extent that anyone who buys it even for a second must be suffering from a very acute case of attention deficit disorder .  now , in all fairness , i cannot say for sure that i would have guessed the ending ( however stupid it may be ) had it not been revealed to me before hand .  however , i feel very confident that i , as well as anyone who had seen a few " twilight zone " episodes , would have seen it coming a mile away .  the fact that movie-goers nation wide are surprised by the ending still has me stumped .  ironically , to fully appreciate the best scene ( that of cole and malcolm attending a little girl's funeral ) , the viewer is required to be aware of a very rare psychological disorder called munchausen syndrome by proxy .  i wouldn't have even known about this mental disease if i hadn't , by pure dumb luck , caught " dateline nbc " the other week when they did a feature story on it .  despite being blessed with some really amazing cinematography and a brauva performance from osment ( where was this kid when casting calls were going out for the phantom menace ? ) , in the end , the sixth sense is too chalk-full of contradictions and just isn't plausible enough to warrant even a slight recommendation . 
pos@ lisa cholodenko's " high art , " is an intelligent , quiet drama .  its strongest quality , aside from the top-notch central performances , is the perceptive way in which the film , also written by cholodenko , observes its characters .  they are all flawed people , some more troubled than others , but they are not judged .  judging the characters in this picture would be a creative misstep on the filmmakers' parts , because no one , no matter how bad off they are , deserve to be negatively judged if they are involved in some serious problems that they cannot break free of .  syd ( radha mitchell ) , a 24-year-old woman living with her longtime boyfriend james ( gabriel mann ) , has recently been awarded an ideal job at the high-profile photography magazine , " frame . "  she very much enjoys where her career is headed , but is often not taken very seriously by her managers , who are always giving her petty jobs to do , when she knows she could be doing more important things .  one night , while taking a bath , syd notices a leak coming from the apartment above hers , so when she goes up there to inform them of it , she meets lucy beliner ( ally sheedy ) , a thin , worn-out , and unhappy woman , who lives with her drug-addicted german girlfriend , greta ( patricia clarkson ) , a pathetic former actress who is usually so out-of-it that she often is in and out of conciousness .  syd quickly strikes up a conversation with lucy , and discovers that she used to be an acclaimed photographer ten years before .  lucy claims she doesn't want to get back into the profession , but syd manages to convince the " frame " editors to do a piece on her work .  all the while , syd begins to grow deep feelings for lucy , even though she has never previously been attracted to a woman , and lucy starts a battle with her personal demons .   " high art , " is such an effective motion picture because it is never suger-coated or idealized , but instead an honest and convincing portrait of a handful of unhappy people whose lives are going nowhere , while syd's luck begins to rise .  the film in no way is about lesbianism , but about love , which was a refreshing change of pace from the usual stereotypical portraits of homosexuality .  as lucy and syd grow closer and closer together , we really do believe that they are falling in love with each other , even if the relationship might be doomed .  with this picture , ally sheedy's star has risen once again , thanks to her touching , nearly flawless portrtayal of lucy , a woman who , in the course of a decade , has found her life consumed almost entirely by drugs , which has taken away her once-blossoming career .  her characted really is tragic , and one particular scene involving lucy and her mother , in which lucy admits to her that she has a drug problem , and her mother matter-of-factly responds by saying she can't help her , is heartbreaking .  although not autobiographical , sheedy has had drug problems in her past , and i suspect she brought that knowledge of already being in lucy's footsteps to her role .  also very good is radha mitchell as syd , who previously starred in the slight 1997 australian comedy , " love and other catastrophes , " wh caught me by surprise with her performance .  easily being able to pass as christina ricci's older sister , mitchell obtains the same natural charisma that has made ricci so popular recently .  as accurate as almost every detail is in , " high art , " i wish the relationship had been more tightly written involving syd and james , who , played by gabriel mann , is left with a throwaway role .  by the time he finds out about syd and lucy , he disappears from the film , and i wish there had been another scene where they confronted each other .  this is a very minor fault , however , in a film that is full of riches .  although many of the characters are stuck in a hopeless pit of despair , syd and lucy are intelligent people who recognize their problems .  the character of dominique ( anh duong ) , the " frame " editor who decides to give syd a chance with her ideas , was also written to be far more mature than expected .  and the one sex scene in the film was beautifully and originally done .  for once , it did not invlove steaminess , or violent sexual activity , or gratuitous nudity , but focused on the actual characters , who love each other , and their insecurities involved in making the decision to actually have sex .   " high art , " which won the screenwriting award at the 1998 sundance film festival , marks the superior feature film debut of cholodenko , as well as sheedy's strongest , and best , role to date . 
neg@ warning : may contain slight mild spoilers .  rated : r for intense violence/gore , some strong sexuality and language .  starring : arnold schwarzeneggar , robin tunney , rod stieger , gabriel byrne .  running time : 132 minutes  we go into a movie theater , boom !  the lights go down , our hearts race , we go through ten minutes of preview and finally the movie we've been waiting to see for a long time comes on .  we sit there , watch in disbelief that this movie is as bad as it is .  why shouldn't i have know what i was getting myself into .  again like this past summers hit " stigmata " , " end of days " may be worse .  it's not like this is any kind of original idea , it just throws in some " rosemary's baby " , along with " the devil's advocate " a little " exorcist " and some " stigmata " here and there .  whala you have " end of days " a movie that is extremely disappointing and by the previews made it look terrific .  sadly but truly again like most recent films , all the good parts are in the trailers .  the plot which is very confusing at times is also very ludicrous and the movie is destined to be a hit in the first weekend , and flop in the next .  jericho cane ( arnold schwarzneggar in hit typical macho role ) is a cop who finds out that he is chosen to track down satan ( living in gabriel byrnes body ) and stop him from impregnating christine york ( robin tunney ) because if he does , and she gives birth all existence as we know it will cease to exist .  he has to do this before it turns into the year 2000 , and strangely he's trying to fight him 5 minutes before 2000 comes .  he seeks help from the catholic church and help from rod stieger ( in a terrific role ) and tries to save this girl leading to an ending that's satisfying , but turns into a typical action movie .  that's pretty much it on plot .  it does have the razzle and dazzle of a great action movie , and with the 100m dollar budget parts seem to show it , parts you have to wonder where all the money went .  as for arnie ?  good role , ok performance .  i think since he is getting a little older he is held back a lot of his stunts .  the thing that disappointed me was the fact that there was nothing to the film .  in the trailers it looks like a good scary , action film and ends up being a boring , long and preposterous drama that leads into something else that leaves us with questions .  gabriel byrnes ( who ironically played a priest in " stigmata " ) here plays satan and gives a good performance but again seems held back and not into his character .  two years back al pacino gave a terrific performance in the fun " the devil's advocate " and here it seems like the idea of him is in the character also .  robin tunney ( great performance as always ) plays satan's main person whom he wants to impregnate to carry his child .  of course rod stieger gives another great performance which really isn't nothing new .  the direction by peter hyams is at times a bit overblown , though not nearly as the visual style was in " stigmata " .  here we are given great camera work , and some great scenes that are terrifically directed but sadly just don't work in this movie .  the script written by andrew marlowe has a few witty lines , but again the movie is all style and no substance and by the ending finale climax i was ready to go home .  only a few things work here and those are a few of the performances , the writing and visual style , but the storyline and the finished product don't work as well .  the sad thing is that " end of days " had so many things going for it .  the plot could have been more organized , the action scenes could have been more brainy and less mind-numbing .  at times it seems like " armageddon " and started to get old and tiresome .  hollywood is running out of ideas bad , and like i've always said before needs new ones .  even with its 100m budget " end of days " is less than pleasing .  in fact the 100m dollar budget is at least 30m over , and easily could have had a 70m budget .  maybe i sound crazy , but i am really looking forward to the new exorcist film , and hope that they make it as good as the original .  we need to get new ideas and stop recycling old ones just to make money at the box-office .  we need to get more films like " the blair witch project " that could scare people to death , while people thinking well what exactly is scaring them and how do i know that it is in fact the blair witch .  overblown effects , stupid and thin plot-line , good performances , disappointing . . . . umm  yup those pretty much describe " end of days " . 
pos@  " a bug's life " may not be " toy story , " but it's more close than " antz " was .  i really liked " antz , " basically because , yes , it is clever and witty and intelligent ( and it has the temerity to take a chance and put woody allen in the lead , perhaps the year's most inspired casting ) , but there was , in fact , something missing from it , and i'm the first to admit that .  maybe it's that it never totally lets go and takes off into real innocent fun - it's too obsessed with its orwellian message to become totally engaging , and if it weren't for woody allen , it would have been just a really clever good-not-great flick .   " a bug's life " has a similar premise , and it also has disney to insure that it's g-rated and not totally over kids' heads like " antz " was ( not a bad thing , believe me ) , but what it also has is a tone that's completely innocent even when it's also remaining perpetually clever .   " antz " is still the more witty film , and i love it for it , and " a bug's life " is more for general consumption , but it's also more entertaining .  it broadens its horizons , and when it really moves from the ant colony , it really shows us a whole new world we've never seen before , and it's take on the evolution of bugs is a lot better than the one in " antz . "  it's also light and clever .  the visuals are , instead of earth tones , bright worldly colors , and still gives the amazing visual technology of " antz " at least a worthy contender .  the characters are also nicely realized - though watered-down for broad consumption , they still carry more wit than the contemporary disney animated films .  the lead character , flik ( voiced by dave foley ) , is nothing more than a slightly-less neurotic z from " antz , " but foley makes him nearly as engaging as allen made z . instead of gene hackman playing the villain , we get the much more menacing kevin spacey as the lead grasshopper , the nicely-titled hopper .  and for the romantic lead , we don't get spacey sharon stone , but intelligent and hard-to-get julia-louis dreyfuss , who doesn't even come around until the very final frames .  not that the plot's really any better than the one in " antz " - it's basically yet another redux of " the seven samurai , " with an ant colony under the control of giant grasshoppers forcing them to produce a product for them or else .  when flik , a bone fide inventor , creates a time-conserving apparatus that accidentally destroys the season's donation , he puts them all in risk , and is sent away so that he won't screw anything up with the pretense that he is searching for help to fight the grasshoppers .  he runs into a group of " warrirors " who are , unbeknownst to him , a group of carnival bugs , and they agree to help under similar false pretenses .  these bugs are an equally wonderful assortment to anything in " toy story " : foppish walking stick slim ( david hyde-pierce ) , german caterpillar heimlich ( joe ranft ) , quick-tempered and insecure male ladybug francis ( denis leary ) , pretentious praying mantis manny ( jonathan harris ) , his assistant butterfly hypsy ( madeliene kahn ) , spider rosie ( bonnie hunt ) , and two fleas , tuck and roll ( michael mcshane ) , who speak in undiscernable jibberish .  the writers lightly touch on each bug's place in bug society and the malleability thereof while making a wisecracks at everything they can , and blowing the audience away with wild visual treats .  grasshoppers jumping in unison seems like a menacing earthquake .  a small bird becomes an ominous mortal threat , whose usual mild-mannered squeal is a scream of death .  the bug city is a modern-day metropolis , complete with fireflies temping as traffic lights and a fly sitting on the curb , holding out a cup , with a sign lying next to him that says " kid tore off wings . "  and a rainstorm is like a giant flood , with each drop acting like a small bomb dropped at millions of miles per hour .  around this , the pixar animators stage several large set pieces , like a resuce mission halfway through that is as wild and entertaining as anything this year , and a wonderfully exciting action piece at the end , a chase scene at night through the labyrinthine branches of a small thicket .  meanwhile , each character gets the spotlight to be completely idisyncratic and interesting , something " antz " couldn't do , and by the end , over the end credits , " a bug's life " pulls it's final punch , out clever-ing " antz " with a series of incessantly hilarious faux-bloopers that come just at the right time , when those who leave immeadiately after the final frame of a film have left , and you can brag that you were one of the elite who stayed and got the full money's worth of entertainment .  still , it's no " toy story . "  that film , maybe above any animated film i've ever seen , encompassed almost true perfection in story , character , and wit .  it proved that it didn't need to brag about it's cutting edge technology to really soar ( it's the least visually striking of the three computer animated films thus far , but is still the most satisfying ) , and created a perfect world of idiosyncratic delights and innocent fun .  yet " a bug's life , " as well as " antz , " are still amazing films , and prove without doubt , that if you're gonna make a computer animated film , send it to the guys who created these three flicks , evne if they're not working under the same roof . 
neg@ it seems that i've stopped enjoying movies that should be fun to watch .  take payback , for example , a movie that most people seem to like .  however , it's horrible schlock , straight out of hollywood's vast talent for sucking creativity out of movies .  it was written and directed by a guy who should have done better ; however , maybe he did do better , after all , 30 percent of the movie isn't his own .  mel gibson , that hollywood zombie , decided he didn't like the ending and had another director reshoot it .  what a crock .  if you sign on to do a movie , then do it the way the script calls for .  why film a movie and then look at it later and say , - no , i changed my mind , i don't like the ending .  you're fired .  let's get someone else to do it .  - i suppose honor is dead in hollywood .  the end of the film is , of course , hollywoodized .  which is to say that it's happy and the guy you root for beats impossible odds to win his prize .  in this case , as is most victories in hollywood movies , gibson's prize is a blond and money .  i miss originality in film , i really do .  i think audiences are so starved for it that they'll flop down a lot of money in hopes that a movie will be original .  payback's tagline - get ready to root for the bad guy - promised an original idea , but it was far from the truth .  while gibson's character certainly broke the law , he was a character that had honor ( odd that gibson himself seems to have very little of it ) , wouldn't kill in front of children and protects his blond woman .  there's nothing bad about him - he's a hollywood character , a person who could never exist in real life .  and gibson knows it - he spends his time trying to act like a " bad guy " , and instead comes off as pretentious and arrogant .  the story involves gibson being double-crossed by his partner ( who is a real bad guy , which made me wish that we could root for him ) over $70 , 000 .  gibson recovers from multiple gunshots , is pissed ( naturally ) , and will do whatever it takes to get the exact amount of money back - no more , no less .  he makes a point of it that it's strictly 70 grand .  a real bad guy would have made his ex-partner pay 25% interest .  this idea is completely stretched out .  gibson ends up going after his partner and the chicago mafia that his partner is affiliated with .  what i didn't understand - this is the chicago mafia .  $70 , 000 is like spare change to them .  they'd probably just pay the guy rather than go through the trouble of dealing with him .  i think they'd respect a guy going through this much trouble for a simple $70 , 000 .  maybe i'm being too hard on the movie .  perhaps the filmmakers were just trying to make a simple popcorn movie .  i read roger ebert's review and he liked gibson in the role because he is a comic at heart playing a bad guy .  that's why we're allowed to root for him .  and it's true - gibson walks the movie as if he's smiling at a joke he just heard .  but he's wrong here .  i wanted a lee marvin or old-time clint eastwood or somebody who wasn't a comic , just an ass kicker .  as a side note , i've just checked the internet movie database and discovered that i am the 38th person to post a newsgroup review of payback .  after this many reviews , why would anyone want to read this ?  really , i don't care .  i'm just trying to gain membership into the on-line film critics society by posting as many reviews as i can . 
pos@ one can not observe a star trek movie and expect to see serious science fiction .  the purpose of star trek is to provide flashy , innocent fun .  sometimes the stories are compelling .  sometimes they're not .  but , with the exception of the first film in the series ( which provides little more than endless shots of amazed faces ) , i've never been bored by any of the enterprise's numerous missions .  star trek : insurrection is no exception .  the film has gotten some negative reviews ( a friend of mine actually thinks it's the worst in the series ) , but i'm not really sure why .  it's an exciting , often hilarious movie that engaged me and left me ready for the next star trek film .  some say it's a bit too light , and more of a long episode than a film .  others say the special effects are cheesy and that it's boring .  i simply enjoyed the film .  insurrection , which is the second film to feature strictly the next generation cast , introduces us to a race of people called the ba'ku ; the ba'ku are very old ( most of them are about three hundred years old ) , but they actually appear younger with age due to strange radiation in the rings of their planet .  of course , these peaceful people can't horde this fountain of youth all for themselves ? leave it up to their archenemies , the son'a , led by ru'afo ( f .  murray abraham ) , to mess everything up .  the son'a , who are horribly disfigured and rely on daily reconstructive surgery to be aesthetically acceptable , strike a deal with the federation to move the ba'ku elsewhere and exploit the secret to keep their race from dying .  that's when captain picard ( patrick stewart ) steps in : he realizes that moving the ba'ku would kill them ( it also helps that he falls in love with a ba'ku woman ( donna murphy ) ) .  so , with his trusty crew , picard defies the federation to keep the ba'ku in their natural habitat .  when dealing with a series with as much history as this , it's not entirely necessary to re-introduce your characters with each episode .  this is why i believe non-fans have a hard time getting into star trek ; in order to enjoy it , one has to understand how to approach it .  insurrection , however , does a surprisingly good job of us new aspects of the characters .  stewart is bold as always , a magnetic screen presence and perfectly capable of holding an entire film together .  jonathan frakes , who also directed , is funny as commander riker ; a subplot with data ( brent spiner ) discovering his lost childhood is fairly interesting ; and abraham makes a perfect star trek villain , overacting like crazy .  frakes showed similar aptitude for direction in first contact ; insurrection is an exciting film , with some really attractive special effects and a lot of good action .  this is apparently the first star trek film to utilize computer animation , and the result is very pleasing to the eye : particularly in the climactic scenes , in which the son'a employ a giant space ship to suck up the rings of the ba'ku planet , the special effects have a clean , impressively sharp look .  if i have any complaint about the film , it's that it tries to take a moral stance when it's not very appropriate to do so .  i don't think it's that big of a deal that the federation wanted to move 600 ba'ku in order to save the lives of thousands .  better yet , why couldn't they have co-existed ?  insurrection feels a little to light to spring these kinds of big moral questions on the audience .  with it's inherent camp factor , the star trek series doesn't seem well-equipped to deal with issues like this .  i prefer to just enjoy the spectacle . 
neg@ i had an epiphany today .  it occurred to me while i was watching " house on haunted hill . "  it is as follows : if a trailer makes the film it's advertising look like a trashy , stupid movie , well guess what ?  chances are , there * is * truth in advertising .  too bad i didn't trust my own instincts when something-or-the-other possessed me to see this movie .  i blame it on my sudden craving for a scare and my anticipation of " sleepy hollow . "  that and " dogma " started too late in the afternoon for my schedule .  an hour of " angel " or " buffy " is scarier than this doozy that tries to be scary and shtick but falls flat on its face .  i wish i'd seen it when it was halloween .  at least i would have been forgiving .  hey , tis the season .  the movie was scary ( albeit very confusing , dizzying , and nauseating ) at first , but soon the horror got repetitive and downright laughable because the film obviously wasn't going anywhere .  now i truly appreciate films like " scream , " " halloween , " or any old hitchcock film where the scariness stems from situations that are at least somewhat realistic .  that's what spooks people out , the fact that it could happen to them or someone they know .  there has to be a logical precedent for the situations they want to scare us with .  sure , utterly unpredictable is good , too , but that's different from utterly nonsensical .  hohh ( house on haunted hill ) , on the other hand .   .   .  well let's just say i about fell off my chair laughing when they oh-so-cleverly revealed that everyone who got invited to the party was related to the psycho doctors who died in the house a couple of decades ago .  riiiiight .  y'know , that just sends chills down my spine .  yeah .  just like i wet my pants when they told me the house is evil .  ooooooo .  hint : blood and guts only work a few times .  sooner or later people start to tell themselves that it's just ketchup and props and you've got to come up with something better than that .  there were just too many things in this movie that we've all seen before ; from the inevitable " plot developments " of strangers unwittingly trapped together ; strangers turning against each other ; the evil manifesting itself ; the dead coming back for a last scare .  each was more predictable than the last .  why didn't these fools just stay together in one place anyways ?  sheesh .  was i grossed out ?  yes .  did i get spooked a few times ?  yes .  but why ?  i get really disturbed when there is no why .  when there weren't random scares that were there for no other reason than for the visual effect ( which wasn't that good either , trust me ) and the scare , the film was filled with drab , laughable dialogue .  the characters were incredibly flat and cliched .  not to mention downright annoying .  you've got a bunch of people going nowhere in their lives ; of course they're dumb enough to go to a party some stranger invited them to provided they win a million dollars if they survive the night .  jeez , i thought no one fell for those " you may already be a winner " things anymore .  and of course , all three gals are babes .  i wonder how on earth the geoffrey rush of " shine " ended up in this movie .  keep that up , geoff , and you'll qualify for the next batman venture .  the only single person i enjoyed was chris kattan because , well , he just cracks me up .  and famke jansen ( sp ? )  because she reminds me of the delectable brosnan .  pierce brosnan ( hey , i willingly endured " dante's peak " three times for him : ) .  all right , i concede .  there were a couple of things i enjoyed .  that perverted little amusement park at the beginning .  i probably won't ride a rollercoaster for a while .  and the machine they used to drive geoffrey's character mad ( see , i don't even remember their names ) .  the machine , not that stupid fishtank with naked wimmin in it .  i kept waiting and waiting for that inevitable twist at the end of the movie .  it wouldn't have redeemed the film , but at least it would have made me feel better .  but no , they opted for the beautiful sunrise ending .  thank god they didn't add a kiss at the end or i would have puked .  god , there is no hope . 
pos@ you've heard all the hype .  you've seen all their faces - natalie portman ( the professional ) as queen amidala , liam neeson ( schindler's list ) as qui-gon jinn , ewan mcgregor ( trainspotting ) as obi-wan kenobi , and jake lloyd ( jingle all the way ) as young anakin skywalker .  if you've read any reviews , you've also probably heard that this movie fails to live up to the magic and humanity of the first trilogy .  you also may have heard that this one's too kiddie-friendly , and doesn't have enough content for adults .  believe the hype .  the effects are stunning , the digitalized creatures are amazingly realistic , the lightsaber duels are amazing , and queen amidala's sumptuous robes are fit to be worn by queen elizabeth .  but there's something missing here , and it isn't budget or effects - it's everything money * can't * buy .  the actors struggle as best they can to flesh out broad-stroked and flat characters .  the most successful at this is liam neeson who , as qui-gon jinn , a jedi master to young obi-wan kenobi , has quiet dignity and a wise , commanding presence .  he is the anchor to this movie , as he is the one character who george lucas apparently spent some time fleshing out .  portman's queen amidala and mcgregor's obi-wan kenobi don't fare nearly so well .  amidala , the future mother of luke and leia and the queen of a peaceful planet being invaded by the trade federation ( ? ! ? ) , comes off as stoic , stilted and caricatured ( it appears as though she was a vulcan geisha in a former life ) .  and obi-wan , although mcgregor makes him very endearing , has so little screen time that he's nothing but a robin to qui-gon jinn's batman .  however , mcgregor does struggle manfully to infuse this surprisingly small supporting role with a spark of genuine insight and humanity , and he does a good job .  he also absolutely nails alec guiness' ( obi-wan in episode 4 - 6 ) scottish accent , and that really makes his presence in the film more profound than it might have been otherwise .  in fact , lucas seems to bank on that preexisting knowledge quite a bit , and that's one of the problems with this film .  i would never call myself a " star wars " fan - especially not considering what it means to be a fanatic these days - but i've always enjoyed the films along with everyone else in america .  however , if you are the one person in america who * hasn't * seen the films at all or even recently , or who doesn't bother to brush-up on the names of obscure characters , you may be hopelessly lost .  for example , one of the film's main ( nefarious ) characters is senator palpatine .  for those of you not recently steeped in " star wars " trivia , emperor palpatine is that scary hooded apparition who was darth vader's master in " return of the jedi " and " empire strikes back . "  so , obviously , his appearance in " phantom menace " is meant to stir some echoes of his later role in the series , thus making his role here more meaningful .  a lot of the movie is like that .  r2-d2 and c-3po make token appearances , and it's obvious that lucas is banking on the audience's pre-existing fondness for them . . .  because he doesn't do much to add to it in any way .  same goes for jabba the hutt , who doesn't look as much mean here as he does corpulent and lazy .  even * planets * make foreshadowing guest appearances in this film - tatooine ( the desert world where luke grew up ) , coruscant ( the cloud city from " empire strikes back " ) , and alderaan ( leia's home planet - which we never actually see - that gets blown up in " star wars " ) show up or are mentioned briefly in passing .  what's the result of tying so many plot points and characters to future films ?  the answer is that this one seems surprisingly empty .  there's no meat - no substance - that makes you want to love the characters as they are , not as they will be .  another problem is that there are actually * too many * alien characters in the film .  i was distracted by the fact that two of the main evil characters - strange looking aliens who looked like gila monsters - had mouths that barely moved , making them look more like muppets than actual characters .  and jar jar binks , a silly roger rabbitish amphibious character , is intended as comic relief , but what he really becomes is annoying - and fast .  unlike chewbacca and c-3po , who got their humanity ( if you'll pardon the expression ) from their interactions with the human characters , jar jar is often left to interact mostly with others of his kind , at times making the movie seem like nothing more than a very expensive " teenage mutant ninja turtles . "  furthermore , the dialogue is often stilted and corny , and sometimes downright infantile , thereby rendering some characters into nothing more than bystanders to the plot .  oddly , this isn't just * my * judgment - lucas has said that he designed this film for kids .  well , he's done a good job .  the hero of this film , of course , is young anakin , but it was very hard for me to feel any kinship or identify with an eight-year-old boy .  that's not jake lloyd's fault , though - he does a good job of being a cute kid , which is apparently all lucas asked of him .  that's another mistake , of course , because the cute tyke becomes darth vader .  warning : spoilers ahead ! ! ! !  in my opinion , there was not nearly enough foreshadowing of anakin's future evil in the film .  the boy is all blond flowing hair and rosy cheeks , and there's nothing more than a spark of aggression in him throughout the entire movie .  he has a doting mother ( pernilla august , making her first english- language film ) and is a slave to a gross flying gnome on tatooine .  but the only indication the audience gets that this kid isn't all hearts and roses is yoda's hesitation in allowing him to train as a jedi under qui-gon jinn .  his explanation ?   " his future is clouded . "   ( warning : major spoiler ahead .  enter at your own risk . )  of course , the noble qui-gon dies at the hand of darth maul , a scary-looking sith lord who excels at the jedi arts , but has turned to the dark side .  this dude has maybe two lines in the entire movie , but he establishes his presence through his amazing moves with his double-sided lightsaber , and his scary facial makeup .  because qui-gon never gets a chance to train the young anakin in the ways of the force , obi-wan , qui-gon's young padawan apprentice ( one level below knightdom ) , must take over the training himself .  so , at the end of the movie , we end where the saga actually begins - with obi-wan kenobi and his young apprentice , anakin " darth vader " skywalker .  did this story need to be told ?  i would say no .  but is it a worthwhile movie to see ?  absolutely .  if you don't enter the theater with jedi-size expectations , and you simply want to be treated to an enjoyable visual spectacle , then this is your movie .  the tatooine pod races are a triumph of effects and computer animation .  the digitalized backgrounds on some of the planets are an astonishing sight .  and yoda and young obi-wan are worth seeing for their origins in a simpler , happier time .  above all , this is a fun movie .  not deep , not meaningful , and not profound .  but fun .  maybe next time , lucas will hire lawrence kasdan to co-write the script , and the guy who directed " empire " will direct .  because if lucas does the next one himself , it will be lacking the one thing it needs the most - potential .   : ) 
neg@ to put it bluntly , ed wood would have been proud of this .  a totally ridiculous plot is encompassed with bad humor , hokey drama , zero logic and a crap screenplay .  also , a beautifully anti-climactic ending .  not to say it didn't look intriguing when i saw the previews .  so much for truth in advertising .  roland emmerich , who's later " independence day " would look like " the 400 blows " compared to this , co-writed and directed this inane sci-fi film which uses the cliche of there being some connection between eqypt and aliens .  in a useless opening sequence , men find a stone in 1914 with hieroglyphics on it .  it wouldn't be till present day ( '94 ) till they would actually figure it out .  they're decipherer ?  a slightly-neurotic scientist ( nice twist ) , dr . dan jackson ( james spader , doing his best outside of erotic thrillers and some indy fare ) who's life sucks so much that people walk out of his lectures after the third word .  why do they use him to decipher what no one else could ?  so there is a hokey ending !  duh !  he figures it out in about a minute .  yea .  and then they get a suicidal colonel or something , " jack " o'neill ( kurt russel , with his wyat earp locks in the beginning then a flat-top that would make howie long snap into a fetal position ) .  why a suicidal colonel ?  for the ending !  you'll get the hang of this .  they open the stargate , a bunch of them go through it with a bomb to blow it up if they find anything bad .  after an overdone special effects thing , they're . . . inside a goddam pyramid .  so they went to egypt , right ?  wrong .  they're on another planet that was filmed in egypt .  they discover a cilvilization ruled by ra , the sun god ( the androginous jaye davidson , with a voice modifier to make him sound like barry white with asthma ) , and there are fights , explosions and a kiss between two people .  yea .  also melodrama , stupidity , hokey scenes and a bizarre language .  an anti-climactic ending ends with stupid lines ( " say hello to king tut , asswhole ! "  - the quintessential line , lemme tell ya ) and some convenient pesudo-pseudo-pseudo-character development .  by the end , you just wanna go home and watch , i don't know , the " outer limits " or something .  the script's terrible .  the special effects are okay , but nothing great .  the story's so weak that it's almost opaque .  the whole experience just isn't worth it unless you're so bored that you'd consider watching a " full house " marathon . . . or  this .  i'd pick this , obviously , but still , it's just not fun at all .  and i can't wait for it to premier on mst3k . 
pos@ go's is a gloriously slick hip machine .  director liman ( who also photographed go ) and screenwriter august celebrate the drug/rave scene in l . a . , preferring to take ( comedic ) snapshots of troubled youth rather than critique them .  after more than ninety minutes of pill-popping , tantric sex , car chases , and attempted murder , go even has a happy ending .  this is the sort of film that gives members of the dove foundation splitting headaches ; as go wound down , i anticipated an anti-pill-popping-casual-tantric-sex-car-chase-attempted-murder sermon that ( blessedly ) didn't arrive .  a la tarantino's pulp fiction , go is comprised of three separate but related stories .  the basics are as follows : ronna ( polley ) is a bitter grocery store clerk facing eviction who turns to drug dealing for extra dough .  her co-worker , simon ( the improbably named askew ) , is a clubber from britain ecstatic about his first trip to vegas .  zack ( mohr ) and adam ( wolf ) are soap opera stars escaping a career-threatening conviction by assisting a peculiar cop ( fichtner ) in a drug bust .  perhaps because the innovative structure of tarantino's non-linear masterwork is by now old hat , the id-fueled go delighted me but rarely surprised me ( with the exception of that mind-reading cat ! ) ;  pulp fiction zigzagged down roads unforeseen , but we see go's wheels turning from its first flash frame to the last .  torontonian polley ( of the sweet hereafter ) refused to do publicity for this picture on the basis that she was " not pleased with " her turn as the ill-fated cashier .  in go , she delivers , hands-down , her best performance to date .  here's an ( overrated ) actress who agreed to appear on the poster , but not support her team at the junket or in interviews ; this sort of arrogance is commonplace for ms . polley , as anyone who has read of her political agenda in the canadian press will tell you .  if she doesn't want to be the ingenue of the moment , she should have said " no , " not go .  but i digress .  go is a fun film , so chipperly depraved one can't help but turn off his moral judgment for its duration and enjoy the ride .  in that sense , it's a departure from liman's last film , swingers , which at least lectured against self-absorption in the form of vince vaughan's trent and his subtle comeuppance in the story's clever epilogue ( which has been aped by mcdonald's for their latest commercial ) .  i wish i cared more about go's characters : like the techno music they listen to , the bands of anarchists on display here are at once absorbing and vacuous .  when the lights came up and stung my eyes , it was difficult to recall what about it entertained me .  yet entertain me it did .  go is light and frothy , featuring compelling if not endearing work by polley , timothy olyphant ( scream 2 ) , and especially fichtner , whose homoerotic behavior is milked for effective laughs .  fichtner is a character actor best known for playing backstabbers ( in heat , armageddon , and others ) ; his previously untapped comic abilities shine in go .  unlike much of the film , fichtner is unpredictable . 
neg@ around the end of 1998 , a japanese cartoon came to the usa television , and really wasn't that big .  in fact not many people even knew what pokemon was , but in 1999 it hit big with kids and adults alike , and became one of the biggest franchises and merchandise seller of all time .  in fact it even spawned a big screen adventure pokemon : the first movie which for what it was , wasn't all that bad .  it grossed $31 million in its opening weekend , and went on to make almost $90 million .  fans thought it was great and now is a second movie in the pokemon craze , " pokemon : the movie 2000 " which is far inferior to the original animated movie .  first up is the plot , which there really isn't much of , in fact the plot what there is : a bad guy trying to destroy the ancient never before seen pokemon , lugia , is about it , except the fact that ash kethcum the worlds best pokemon trainer must try and stop him before he destroys this one pokemon forever .  well there you go , of course ash is followed by his friends misty , brock , gary and his pokemon friends , pikachu , squirtle , charizard , the usual .  even though the first movie wasn't a great film , it was definately an enjoyable well-made movie with an actual thin storyline .  this new movie however is nothing but garbage , there is nothing good to it storywise , and its only good thing comes from some plush animation and colors .  compared to the first film , this movie is awfully bland , from its opening titles , to the end titles it tries its best to work , but fails miserably at every corner .  the characters are 1-dimensional , the story thin as chicken broth , and the writing very lame .  even the so called action scenes are extremely lame , and falls before it even gets a chance to go .  the voices even aren't that good and almost feels like the stars don't want to be there , like they can tell that this is an extremel bad movie .  which it certainly is .  the film has one thing going for it and that is the animation , although not up to disney standards , it is still very good with some interesting cgi's and very colorful animation , the colors jump out at you very fast , and seem very nicely put on film .  why a film this bad got such a good treatment with its animation is still a question to be answered , hopefully pokemon 3 next year will be much better than this trash .  for now watch the first one .  its much much better . 
pos@  " the celebration " is one of an elite kind of films that is completely absorbant .  you know , where you sit down to watch it , and no matter what you've heard about it before , you just can't help but be totally drawn into its story and shocked by every single turn that occurs .  i prefer films like these because these are what the best kind of films are like .  i don't really feel there are to be any real " rules " for cinema ; a film can do anything , as long as it makes it work .  but i do ask that all films have one thing in common : they create experiences .  when i watch a film , no matter what kind of film it is , i want to be able to take certain memories along with me .   " the celebration " is great because it's chock full of those .  it creates a world so completely realistic that everything that occurs is as memorable as the little instances of life that catch your attention and stay with you for the rest of your life .  and then it makes things just a tad bit farscial , just to make sure you're paying attention , which you are because what transpires is just so goddam interesting that if you were to ever feel bored , then you're of your attention span needs a bit of a tuning-up .  the story takes place at the extravagant home of an aging patriarch ( henning mortizen ) , who has just turned 60 and is having a party thrown for him .  all his friends and family turn up , and for the first half hour , we get introduced to everyone , simplistically and realistically ( no aggravatingly condescending posing for the camera deals here ) .  the eldest son , christian ( ulrich thomsen , looking a bit like a young malcolm mcdowell ) , is the first to be seen in the film , walking to his father's home .  his brother , michael ( thomas bo larsen ) , drives by , pulls over , greets him , then kicks his family out of the car , forcing them to walk to the estate , just so christian can be comfortable .  we then meet helene ( paprika steen ) , their sister , a woman who always seems to be stressed-out , who invites the driver of her car ( gbatokai dakinah ) , an american , to to come join her at the party she's going to .  once they're all there and settled in , the party begins , and as custom , the eldest son has to make a speech to his dad , so christian stands up , at the head of the table , and reveals the film's punchline : his father raped all his children at a young age .  but since this is a family/friends affair , his confession becomes more detested than the supposed truth , and is simply brushed off despite his efforts , and what transpires is sorta like jerry springer crossed with jean renoir , and it's all terribly interesting to watch .  twists occur , and soon the film has taken on a nearly-farsical nature , but still seems realistic because the people involved really feel like they could reach such ends .  the most notorious thing about this film , which has been getting the most notice , though , is that the director , thomas vinterberg has shot it in a completely awkward fashion .  as a member of the danish filmmakers clan , dogme 95 , a group that has vowed to oppose " the auteur concept , make-up , illusions , and dramaturgical predictability " so that they may " purge film so that once again the inner lives of the characters justify the plot . "  i have not seen " breaking the waves , " the other notable film by a member of this group ( lars von trier , to be exact ) , but " the celebration " works exquisitely in this department .  it feels like reality , like you're actually watching real people and not actors , and as a major pointer , has been shot on video .  as a result , it looks more like the home movies you never dare shot of your family than an actual film , but always wanted to .  we see key moments in people's lives that they wouldn't dare show to the world , and it captures the farscial comedy of life so accurately and acutely that this style , as ironically-showmanship as it really is , works perfectly for the nature of the film .  the key , though , to this film , and the reason it's not just a cool danish import , is because this film is not about revealing the truth as much as it is about the way people react to such an explosive truth .  throughout the film , we see a completely realized debate over the truth and the effects it has on the lives of those who have learned to live with lies , a debate so three-dimensional that it could easily blow oliver stone and his the-truth-at-all-costs reasoning out of the water .  of course it was not right for the father to rape his children , and of course , they couldn't have fought back then , and of course this has created scarring suppression inside them .  and yes , it's thearapeutic for one to release the truth years later , when they know it could easily destroy the one who emotionally destroyed them earlier .  but then again , the father , after all , is not a totally bad guy , and we can see the emotional complications that arise thanks to a performance by mortizen which is just so great and touching that while we do believe that he could have raped his children years earlier , we also see a man who has also learned to live with what he's done , and deep down , feels true guilt that is only now beginning to surface .  the final scene , involving mortizen and everyone else , is utterly devastating , thanks to him and thomsen , whose performance is utterly flawless and equally emotionally complex .  everyone else is flawless as well - the actors never seem to be stepping into the shoes of their characters as much as they do walking comfortably in them .  the actors or writers have not made the mistake to judge these characters in the slightest : there are no whites or blacks but instead all grays , exactly like life .  as such , " the celebration " may be the one truly bizarro film of the year : a work of art so eerily close to reality that it's utterly disturbing and utterly fascinating . 
neg@ i didn't come into city of angels expecting greatness .  i've never seen wim wenders' wings of desire , the classic movie upon which city is loosely based .  then again , i have seen enough stories which are based upon a similar plot device , with the little mermaid ( both the disney version and the original folktale ) being among them , that i had some high expectations about the possible power such a story of impossible love can hold .  unfortunately , city of angels ended up fulfilling few of them .  the plot , for those that couldn't tell from the previews , revolves around the angel seth , played with an almost creepy intensity by nicolas cage , who , in the midst of his angelic duties , falls in love with a heart surgeon named maggie ( meg ryan in her most endearing performance since when harry met sally ) .  of course , his being an angel prevents him from doing much about his love except appearing at random times to talk to her , watch her buy groceries , only to disappear in the blink of an eye .  their love must remain unrequited unless seth decides to make the ultimate sacrifice and become human .  using this framework as a jumping-off point , the movie attempts to veer through some heavy philosophical ruminations on the nature of desire , the joys of being human , and the definition of perfection .  the first half of the movie succeeds on most points .  cage excellently plays the eminently difficult role of an angel who doesn't know feelings so can't really express , preventing the character of seth from getting boring despite his limited repertoire of intent looks and hang-dog expressions .  unfortunately , cage takes the intensity too far sometimes , and then seth comes across as more creepy than sensitive .  as maggie , ryan manages to be convincing as a heart surgeon who has trouble coming to terms with her having lost a patient on the operating table despite having done everything right .  her beauty , unlike her unbearable cuteness in french kiss , is mature , intelligent , and winning .  likewise , some interesting ideas float around at the beginning of the film .  when the camera pans through traffic jams and libraries and we get to hear the thoughts of the random people who flash across the screen , the audience experiences a little of what it must be like to be an angel .  the beautiful camera work , shooting down onto the hectic world of los angeles from the improbable perches of the angels , also gives us a sense of the unique wonder angels feel .  the film begins to lose its way , though , when the focus tightens more and more on seth and maggie .  the grand , angelic perspective gets lost , except for some idly tossed lines about the incredible beauty of the world through an angel's eyes .  the movie devolves into an examination of how seth can't feel the world or , more importantly , he can't feel maggie : he can't smell her hair , feel her touch , or taste the pears she eats .  this change in focus attempts to capture the audience in seth's intense longing , but in doing so , the conflict disappears .  if he wants maggie so badly , then why doesn't her just make the leap and become human ?  after all , what's so great about being an angel ?  sure , you get to sit on marlboro signs , but what's that compared to getting to be with meg ryan ?  and from there , once the yearning has been established and the romantic denouement must occur , it's all downhill .  the philosophy becomes heavy-handed , the dialogue pedestrian when it tries to be deep , and the plot twists simply attempt to yank a few more tears into the audience's hankie .  it's the last thirty minutes of the movie , then , that wrecks the film .  i feel like the writer , by pulling out all the melodramatic stops , has robbed me of what could have been a genuinely powerful movie experience on both the romantic and the philosophical level .  i came out feeling robbed , seeing so much possibility in a film becoming nothing .  i could go on longer , but i don't want to " ruin " the end by revealing any of the cheap plot devices the film relies on .  city of angels , then , is a paradox .  it's a well-acted ( particularly look for dennis franz cutting against type-casting as a happy-go-lucky fallen angel ) , well-filmed , and based on a wonderful idea .  all these possibilities , though , are what make the film so unredeemable when the closing credits come up . 
pos@ ralph fiennes is carving out a nice niche for himself in the genre of period piece romances .  for his followup to the academy-beloved the english patient , he has once again turned to a love story , this time directed by accomplished australian film maker gillian armstrong ( little women ) .  despite some obvious overplotting , oscar and lucinda is a mostly effective and often affecting motion picture that touches our hearts while daring our minds to balk at its implausible coincidences .  the film opens in the mid-1800s , with parallel storylines in new south wales , australia and devon , england .  as the helpful narrative voice of geoffrey rush informs us , lucinda leplastrier ( cate blanchett ) is a headstrong young woman being raised in the australian outback .  meanwhile , half the world away , oscar hopkins ( fiennes ) has broken with his puritanical father over religious issues , and has gone away to school to study to be an anglican priest .  lucinda is fascinated with glass ; oscar is obsessed with theology .  lucinda is rich ; oscar is poor .  lucinda is forward and self-assured ; oscar is timid and uncertain of himself .  yet one characteristic unites these two diverse individuals -- the compulsion to gamble , whether it's on horses , dogs , cards , or the flip of a coin .  and fate has decreed that they will one day meet .  that day doesn't occur until 45 minutes into the film , when oscar boards a ship bound for sidney , australia , where he hopes to change his life and minister to anyone in need of his help .  another of the passengers is lucinda , who is returning from england where she was shopping for machinery to equip her newly-acquired glassworks factory .  at first , their relationship is that of a reverend and a confessor , but it doesn't take long for both of them to recognize a kindred spirit in the other .  a friendship is born , and , once they reach australia , it develops into something more potent .  but oscar is uncertain of lucinda's affection , and feels he must do something to prove himself worthy of her .  oscar and lucinda isn't beyond a little manipulation to get the desired emotional response , and there are times when the storyline curves in preposterous directions .  on more than one occasion , it's apparent that events are occurring specifically to funnel the characters into a position where there is only one possible route .  coincidence is a crucial plot device ; without it , this movie can't go anywhere .  the voiceover narration ( never one of my favorite techniques ) is too verbose and breaks into the story at undesirable moments .   ( however , without it , the final twist , which i will not reveal , would not be as poignant . )  yet , despite these quibbles , i enjoyed oscar and lucinda .  storyline faults pale in the light of two such finely-realized characters .  thematically , the film is also strong .  the unifying motif -- that everything in life is a gamble -- is successfully delineated .  oscar and lucinda don't just wager their money , they bet their hearts , minds , and souls .  a card game they engage in shortly after they first meet could easily be considered a form of emotional " strip poker " where defenses are peeled away to reveal their shared , secret passion .  oscar does not see gambling as a vice .  in fact , he believes that the greatest chance one takes in life is betting one's immortal soul on the truth of a religious faith .  ralph fiennes , who normally plays strong , confident men , is very much at home as the fumbling , insecure oscar .  the actor brings a variety of nervous tics to the part , all of which subtly add to a vague sense of discomfort whenever oscar is on-screen .  as good as fiennes is , however , he is eclipsed by cate blanchett .  the actress , who appeared earlier this year as one of the leads in bruce beresford's paradise road , is mesmerizing as lucinda .  she gives this liberated woman her flash , and feeds the chemistry between the two lead characters so that it sparkles rather than fizzles .  effective support is provided by ciaran hinds ( the male lead in jane austen's persuasion ) as lucinda's close friend , tom wilkinson ( the full monty ) as oscar's mentor , and clive russell as a self-serving adventurer .  there's a real magic in the way armstrong develops the story , keeping things moving in unexpected directions without lingering too long on any one moment or sequence .   ( in fact , i wish she had devoted a little more time to the luminous middle act , which has oscar and lucinda together . )  with the skill of a consummate storyteller , she weaves romance , friendship , passion , humor , and tragedy together into a complete package .  the characters , with all of their human foibles and neuroses , are wonderfully developed by fiennes and blanchett .  so who cares if the storyline is a little ripe and unwieldy ?  oscar and lucinda still offers abundant pleasures to reward the viewer . 
neg@ this was the last carry on movie ( if you discount 'carry on columbus' as a carry on movie ) and was made by a new production company .  based in central london , this movie is about the attempts by emmanuelle prevert ( suzanne danielle ) to bed her husband emile the french ambassador ( kenneth williams ) .  when he seems unwilling , she is given his permission to bed anyone she likes , such as the prime minister and the u . s . ambassador .  her antics get her into trouble and the british press spread these rumours all over their front pages .  she is invited to talk on television to set the record straight but only confirms the rumours instead .  meanwhile , theodore valentine ( larry dann ) is in love with emmannuelle after a chance encounter in the toilet of the concorde and is determined to marry her .  however , she is only interested in restoring her husband's ardour which seems a little difficult after emile's accident with a church spire !  this film is the second worst carry on movie , the worst being 'carry on england' .  it is embarassing to see some of the remaining regulars struggle through this diabolical script by lance peters and try to pull off some of the crude and tasteless jokes that he has written .  newcomers suzanne danielle and beryl reid ( as mrs . valentine ) are mildly funny , but larry dann as theodore is excruciatingly bad .  kenneth williams only appears in a few scenes and his lacklustre performance is warranted , given the script .  the small parts for jack douglas as lyons the butler , joan sims as mrs . dangle , kenneth connor as leyland the chauffeur , and peter butterworth as richmond , are worthless and embarassing .  in fact , all four parts are surplus to requirements .  however , the only humourous scene in the film is when the four of them and emmannuelle talk about their most amourous escapades .  an awful script , a terrible collection of jokes , very poor production values ( especially the scene where emmannuelle takes her clothes off at st . james palace ) , a ludicrous and cringeworthy musical score , and a non-existent plot or storyline .  its just a succession of awful set pieces about who emmannuelle will bed next !  jack douglas is not so annoying but is more boring , joan sims and peter butterworth are wasted , and kenneth connor and kenneth williams put in some poor performances as leyland and emile .  a complete waste of time , this movie was trying to catch up with the new sexually permissive seventies .  it was a certificate 15 film but by 1978 , there was little interest in this kind of film and it flopped at the box office and was only given its premiere on uk terrestrial television in april 1998 !  avoid at all costs ! 
pos@ i can hear the question already .  what on earth do these two movies have in common ?  to most people , not a lot , except that both are by renowned directors .  as i saw them , however , both movies have flawed romantic scripts wrapped in distinctive packaging of lavish visuals musical numbers .  but oh , how differently the packages affect their films .  while " everyone's " production numbers make an otherwise ordinary woody tale something special , jane campion's imaginative visuals only serve to emphasize how pompous and uninvolving laura jones' script is .  i left " everyone says i love you " not remembering a lot about who loved whom , but its infectious happiness put a grin on my face .  i left " the portrait of a lady " not remembering a lot about who loved whom , and i could have cared less .   " everyone " features nothing allen hasn't done before storywise .  woody is again desperately in love with a beautiful woman ( roberts ) , and against the odds they manage to click for awhile before allen is left wondering what went wrong--again .  similar situations happen to his family and friends .  some of the more outlandish comedy scenes even hark back to his " early , funny " films .  the scenes between tim roth and drew barrymore could have come out of " take the money and run , " his directorial debut .  however , nothing allen has ever done prepared me for this one-of-a-kind display of sheer good spirits .  in fact , in this movie , the feeling itself is what's most important .  yes , the movie would have been better--among his very best , i think--if it had a meatier story .  but what it lacks in substance it makes up for in feeling .  and what better way to express feeling than through music ?  love is often best expressed in a song , and the numbers the cast break into here cut straight to the heart .  some are a tad too goofy , such as the number where a lot of ghosts prance around in a funeral parlor , but i admired allen for even putting them in there .  it also helps that as usual , allen has a top-flight cast working with him .  their singing voices range from quite good ( goldie hawn ) to not quite good ( allen ) to literally unlistenable ( barrymore , whose real voice was dubbed by a professional ) .  but while their vocal abilities differ , all the actors do a great job of putting joy up there on the screen , and making it rub off on the audience .  granted , some people will simply never accept characters singing in movies , but for those attuned to it , this film should work wonders .  jane campion , too , has a top-flight cast working for her in " portrait of a lady , " too , but even their considerable skills can do nothing to keep the film from being a stilted , virtually lifeless mess , albeit a visually interesting one .  campion and her cinematographer stuart dryburgh come up with a great variety of eye-filling images that linger in the mind .  unfortunately , what didn't linger in the mind for me was the story the visuals were supposed to be reflecting .  i remember very well shots of a train with its light beaming and shots of men vanishing around nicole kidman , but i can remember very little of what happened between all these people .  even worse , i don't find myself feeling bad that i've forgotten .  the problem , i think , lies not with the cast , which seemed to be trying very hard for the material .  it was the script that couldn't convince me to care about anyone .  the characters were putting out all kinds of emotion , but i found no reason to connect with any of them .  i understood that the story was about cold , emotionally vacant characters , but for me to care about them , i have to identify with them somehow and want them to inject feeling into their lives .  jones' script never simply gave me that opportunity .  in the end , it almost seemed as if campion was trying to inject some life of her own into the proceedings with her visual flourishes .  unfortunately , as she kept painting these dazzling pictures , they only served to push me further away from the material and remind me that there was no connection between me and the film .  in the end , the movie's one strength ended up hurting it .  so here we have two films with pretty uninteresting plots , and yet i was able to truly enjoy one of them .  why ?  with both films , my head cared about neither story , but only " everyone says i love you " was able to make my heart sing . 
neg@ while watching loser , it occurred to me that amy heckerling's true genius as a film-maker is casting .  in fast times at ridgemont high , she gave us sean penn's jeff spicoli ; in look who's talking , she turned bruce willis into a wise-cracking baby and provided john travolta with is first career revival ; in clueless , she found a star vehicle for the adorableness that is ( or was ) alicia silverstone .  she seems to understand instinctively how to find performers the audience will like in spite of their flaws .  unfortunately , she may also be starting to understand that she understands .  giving appealing actors an appealing script creates likeable movies .  giving appealing actors a script in which their appeal _is_ the movie makes for unexpectedly awful films like loser .  naturally , heckerling makes her protagonist an all-around swell guy .  paul tannek ( jason biggs ) is a small-town boy who gets a scholarship to nyu , then instantly finds himself an island of compassion and diligence in the cold-hearted big city .  paul is the kind of guy who gives up his seat on the subway to an elderly woman ; his roommates adam ( zak orth ) , chris ( tom sadoski ) and noah ( jimmi simpson ) are the kind of guys who blast their music and let their waterbeds leak all over paul .  paul is also the kind of guy who adores girls from afar , in this case the lovely dora diamond ( mena suvari ) .  dora has problems of her own , including a shortage of funds to pay her tuition and a relationship with a professor , edward alcott ( greg kinnear ) , that's more than slightly one-sided .  they're two conscientious kids who love animals and homeless people , so clearly they belong together , even if paul is a loser .  i must confess that , for a while , i was suckered in by heckerling's casting .  jason biggs is an engaging performer whose unconventional looks make him even easier to embrace ; suvari is a coquette with an undercurrent of intelligence .  they're pleasant enough to watch , and heckerling gives us plenty of scenes establishing how nice they are and how nice their respective antagonists aren't .  then it gradually becomes clear that there's virtually nothing to loser but scenes of that sort .  in theory , loser is a romantic comedy , but there is scarcely a laugh to be found in the entire film ( notable exception : a cameo by a scene-stealing comic actor as a video store clerk ) .  instead of taking any time to make the characters' situations funny , heckerling spends 98 minutes making her characters' situations pathetic .  she shows none of the ear for quirky dialogue that sparked clueless , nor any of that film's interest in lively plotting ( not surprisingly , since clueless's plot came via jane austen's emma ) .  she simply turns the film into a pity party .  since loser is a film composed almost entirely of establishing character , you might think that those characters would be interesting , or at least slightly complicated .  instead , you have people either so perfect or so unredeemable that there's no reason to watch them .  paul isn't just a nice guy , he's flawless ; consequently , he's a central character who does absolutely no growing .  his roommates aren't just inconsiderate , they're actively evil-blackmailing professor alcott , drugging women with rohypnol and generally giving humanity a bad name .  and professor alcott isn't just manipulative , he turns dora into his house slave .  dora's unthinking devotion to alcott is the only whiff of basic human frailty to be found in loser , and even that isn't explored in sufficient detail .  there's more ambiguity in the 30-second snippet from alan cumming's broadway performance as the emcee in cabaret then there is in the rest of loser it's one thing to turn supporting characters into comic exaggerations ; it's another to flatten your leads into easily digestible mush .  and it would help if those comic exaggerations were somehow . . .  i don't know . . .  comic .  still , i spent much of the film holding out the ridiculous hope that heckerling would somehow salvage loser from its tedium and justify my desire to like paul and dora .  that hope dissolved the moment heckerling underscored a sequence of paul in the throes of unrequited love to simon and garfunkel's " scarborough fair/canticle . "  instead of giving the sequence a knowing wink-a reference to the graduate , a hint that paul is becoming an overly-sensitive clich-heckerling plays it deadly straight .  even in the scenes that scream for a light comic touch and a bit of a poke at her protagonist's foibles , she finds it impossible to stray from the gospel of paul as saint .  clueless's cher had her self-absorption and manipulative tendencies to balance her cuteness .  in loser , amy heckerling shows a leaden hand with material that demands friskiness ( her one show of wit involves naming paul's dorm " hunt's hall " after erstwhile bowery boy huntz hall ) .  her gift with casting proved to be her curse .  loser may be a crashing bore , but gee , aren't those two kids swell ? 
pos@ the booming introduction music finishes , and the camera sweeps over red mountains .  we see two figures looking over a barren , and very red landscape .  they kiss , then walk on .  one of the characters ( schwarzenegger ) slips , and falls .  the glass on his mask cracks .  his face scruches up , and his eye's begin to pop . . . . .  then doug quaid , played by schwarzenegger , wakes up .  it's all been a dream .  he wakes up next to his beautiful wife , played by stone , and the film begins . . .  total recall is a typical sci-fi film wrapped around an intresting ( if far fetched ) plot .  quaid , who has never been to mars , keeps on having dreams of the planet , which has now been colanised .  one day , while riding on a train , he's see's a ad for a company called 'rekall' , which implants memories of a holiday , instead of you actually going there yourself .  quaid chooses the 'secret agent on mars' memory , and then the s * * * really hits the fan .  the implant goes wrong , and quaid really thinks he is an agent on mars for about two minutes , until he goes back to normal and can't remember a thing .  however , everyone he knows ( his workmates , his wife ) turn against him , saying how 'blabbed about mars' and 'blew his cover on the mission' a strange man , called richter , played by ironside , wants to kill him .  quaid , now hopelessly confused , follows the advice given to him , by a 'friend' .  he get's his ass to mars .  mars is ruled by cohagen , played by cox , who charges people for air .  against him are the rebels , who are mainly mutants .  the rebel's need quaid to defeat cohagen , because quaid knows ( but can't remember yet ) about a reactor that produces air .  eventually , quaid kills cohagen , turns on the reactor , saves the planet , and goes away with a beautiful girl , just like the guy at rekall promised him .  throughout this plot , there is huge explosions , thousands of deaths ( and i mean a lot of death ) swearing , sex , and everything else that make's a good verhoeven ( director of basic instinct and starship troopers ) movie .  naturally , there's some pretty imaginative deaths , with arms getting ripped off , someone getting drilled , and heads exploding .  as you can tell , it's violent stuff .  but it's done so stylishly , and of course arnie tones it down with a one liner , that's it excusable .  the acting is variable .  arnie , of course , is useless , but he goes has some good lines , and in the first twenty minutes , he even act's like a normal bloke , not like some action hero .  stone , of course , is useless , making a pretty poor wife , and a pretty poor action hero .  but , she does sex scenes alright .  ticoton ( most recently seen in con air ) , again , is ok , doing some good action , but getting her emotions all wrong .  one minute she hates quaid , the next she loves him , and she never gets this tranisition right .  so , the good guys are awful .  but , the bad guy's are excellent .  cox is basically reprising robocop , but he's still great in this , and he delivers the best line in the whole film near the end .  ironside is superbly evil , with an utterly emotionless face .  the supporting cast are fine , and not even the comedy sidekick ( this time in the form of a taxi driver ) is annoying .  one disappointing aspect , though , are the special effects .  ilm and dreamquest do some good work ( such as a subway station scene ) but the model work is not so good .  some of the model heads look appaling fake , and quatto is a major disappointment .  another irritating thing is the product placement .  there are a lot of plugs ( and a good mars today gag ) however , the sets look great , and the special effects at the end of the film aren't too bad either .  there's also a good soundtrack running through , by jerry goldsmith ( the omen , poltergeist , star trek : the motion picture )  overall , then , total recall is a hugely violent , yet hugely enjoyable , action fest , with a reasonable plot thrown in there too , some great bad guys , and some imaganitive death .  for a schwarzenegger movie , this is not bad at all .  in fact , it's very good . 
neg@ capsule : a wild jungle woman and an 11-story gorilla are discovered in tibet and taken to hong kong where the gorilla escapes and causes havoc .  this is a laughable 1977 rip off of king kong ( 1976 ) , itself a rip-off .  production values are low and audiences seem to like the film mostly for derisive laughter .   , high -2 ( -4 to +4 )  - directed by ho meng-hua .  - this film is provided to be a sort of laughing stock to finish the festival .  - an earthquake uncovers an 11-story tall gorilla in the himalayas .  a hunter , chosen because he just broke up with his girl and is at loose ends , gets sent to find the ape and finds a sort of female tarzan who controls the ape .  - evelyne kraft is the jungle girl in a leather bikini that she is pasted into so she always looks on the verge of bouncing out of .  - gorilla actor has no idea how gorillas move and suit is terrible .  nice miniature effects , however .  - has almost a music video inside it of jungle girl playing with animals like chi-chi the leopard .  - several places there is narrative that is nearly incoherent as if there are missing scenes and the viewer has to guess what happened in the interim .  - actual location shooting in mysore .  ape shown badly matted behind temple .  - combining of images usually pretty bad .  incompetent matching of film stocks .  - stock footage frequently used .  - gorilla brought to hong kong by greedy entrepreneur who really abuses the ape before it escapes and tears things up real good . 
pos@ there seem to be two reactions to dark city .  you either love it or you are unimpressed .  count me as a " love it . "  as good as the crow and spawn are , dark city is better .  where the former two have a specific comic-book following , the latter is an original work with the potential for broader appeal .  it has a similar look to the others , but dark city is much more thoughtful and much less violent .  not clever or complex , the story is still fascinating , like a selection from the twilight zone .  a man ( rufus sewell ) is awakened in his bathtub by a man with a syringe .  surprised , the attacker runs off .  the dazed man gets out of the tub and finds a woman's body in the room .  a mysterious caller warns him to leave the apartment immediately , so he packs some clothes and leaves , never sure why he's leaving or what he's fleeing .  ghoulish figures in long coats recognize the man and chase him through the dark city , hounding him like figures in a nightmare .  an odd blast of willpower allows the man to dream himself free from his pursuers long enough to check his i . d .  the amnesiac learns that he is not dreaming and that his name is john murdoch .  now if only he could remember the rest of his life . . . .  dark city is good on many levels .  first , the look of the movie is excellent .  give credit to production designers george liddle and patrick tatopolous for creating a coherent look from diverse elements .  there are visual elements from the american 1920s-60s , mixed with dickens-era urban industrial elements .  it is all pulled together in a sad , dark look reminiscent of the diner in edward hopper's painting , nighthawks .  proyas' use of models gives an appropriately eerie unreality to the film's world ( for not only does the audience see the city a model , but so do the ghouls ) .  the look is like a cross between tim burton's batman and the bleak animation of the brothers quay .  second , the editing of the film is good .  the pacing is on track , and the plot is revealed , the " amnesia " explained , in satisfying increments .  also , the stylized editing within each scene gives the movie a tense , caffeinated look .  third , the special effects are well used .  they look good , but more importantly , the right effects are used for the right job .  one example stands out in my mind : the coated figures who haunt the city can attack telekinetically .  a simple ripple effect is used .  a more showy effect could have been chosen , but then it would have just been gratuitous .  restraint was shown where necessary , letting the more critical effects look more impressive .  finally , like gattaca , dark city spends a just a little effort striving for mythical significance .  unlike gattaca , the story is just open-ended and non-literal enough to be successful .  john murdoch's recovery from amnesia is tied to the passing of the night , and the hopeful coming of the dawn .  his struggle with amnesia is both figuratively and literally the struggle of all mankind ( at least in his world ) .  when we finally see the big picture of the movie's world , it is as mysterious as the iroquois image of the world being carried on the back of a giant turtle .  a few minor flaws keep me from giving this movie the same perfect score roger ebert gave , but i do strongly recommend it , for its look , its pace , its story , and its timelessness . 
neg@  " from the director of " the nightmare before christmas " it said in the previews , which i'm guessing was said to get people to go see the movie , obviously it hasn't worked since the $75 million dollar movie has yet to break $5 million .  to each it's own however , since " monkey bone " is not only a bad movie all together , but technically well-made .  a tragic waste of talent and incredible visual effects .  stu miley is the genius behind the new phenomena " monkey bone " a crude comic strip , that everyone wants to merchandise , they go to great links to get it as well , including dollars that let out fart powder .  when stu and his girlfriend , julie ( bridget fonda ) are in a freak car accident ( you'll see ) stu goes into a coma , and while in his coma stu travels to i'm guessing dark town , where all the characters in dreams come to life .  people are stuck in this town , with their nightmares roaming around them .  when stu spots monkey bone ( whom he really can't stand ) he tries to keep him under control .  making a new friend kitty ( rose mcgowan ) he learns that if he gets an exit pass from death , he can go back up and live his life .  when monkey bone and stu steal a pass , monkey bone becomes a trader and takes it and goes into stu's body .  now monkey bone must get everyone to buy these dolls with nightmare powder , so everyone has nightmares . . . or  something like that .  rather complex ( in fact more than it needs to be ) " monkey bone " had potential in the script and even the story .  what is considerably noticeable is the gaping plot holes , and lack of character development .  for instance we really don't get to know who stu or julie are , so why should we even care ?  kitty played well by rose mcgowan ha a story behind her , but we are not given a chance to know her .  the cast is decent however , brendan fraser seems to be enjoying himself in the role as stu miley , but becomes awfully annoying when monkey bone takes over his body .  bridget fonda is dreary and seems to bring the film to a screeching halt , her performance is bad and she seems miscast .  dave foley isn't given enough to do , as well as " will & grace's " megan mullally who can be funny .  the standout performance is the voice of nick turturro as monkey bone himself , he is very funny and entertaining and really keeps the film from being a total bust .  the special effects of " monkey bone " is what might really bring in some curious viewers , these special effects are highly effective , and nice to look at with the eyes .  some of them are believable and some unbelievable . . . for  monkey bone he seems to be like stuart little , you really don't realize that he is animated . . . but  on occasion it sneaks up on you .  the direction by henry selick is good , but at times he doesn't know what kind of film he wants to make , and the ending climax falls off the cliff .  it's too bad really , " monkey bone " could have been a real good movie , but with it's heavily done hack job , and lack of character development it just sinks when the end credits role .  for those curious however , it might be worth the rental , but other than that avoid this one . 
pos@ this is a good year if you want plenty of sci-fi on your multiplex .  >from the comedies mars attacks and men in black , to luc besson's powerful the fifth element , and to this , sci-fi/horror that is event horizon .   ( more is on the way with contact and alien : ressurection being released later this year . )  the story is thus : in 2040 an explorer ship called the event horizon tests out a newly invented gravity drive .  a device that enables a craft to travel anywhere in the universe , instantaneously .  this is achieved by creating a gateway , infact , a black hole , between the craft and it's required destination .  in this case , from near neptune to proxima prime .  however , when the event horizon attempts this , it dissappears , without trace , leaving two searches for it fruitless .  seven years later , it reappears , transmitting a distress signal and this is where the film starts .  a search and rescue ship is sent out to investigate .  the team is led by laurence fishburne , and joining them is sam neill who plays the scientist that invented the gravity drive .  as the team search the event horizon , they find no trace of the crew but plenty of blood lying around .  not a good sign . . .  to make matters worse , as they search the ship , they find themselves being subjected to a series of illusions based on their own individual inner secrets and worse , some very bloody events start to occur as they slowly piece together the events that transpired on the ship seven years ago .  it soon becomes apparent that , wherever the ship went , it bought something back with it .  something very , very evil . . .  the first thing you'll notice in this film is it's incredible visual effects .  they really are eye popping , with some great models to boot .  the acting is quite good , with some occasional witty moments .  sam neill does a good job as the scientist that increasingly becomes more and more disturbed as the search continues , but a tip of the hat goes to laurence fishburne who leads the team , in a cool , calm , take no nonense manner .  it is his acting skills that help hold this film together .  the idea behind event horizon is certainly a good one .  it starts off incredibly well , but the middle section becomes quite confused and sometimes muddled , leaving the viewer unsure on just what the reasons are behind some of the bloody and bizarre events that occur .  however , the closing 20 minutes of the film more than make up for this , producing one the most nail biting ( or in my case , straw of my drink biting ! )  climaxes i've recently witnessed .  overall , event horizon is a smart film indeed .  it's very enjoyable and has some amazing visuals .  but be warned , the horror scenes , despite being very brief are very , very , gory .  not for the squemish ! 
neg@ starring william baldwin ; cindy crawford & steven berkoff all right , the first problem that fair game has is the casting of supermodel cindy crawford in the lead role .  not that cindy does that bad , it's just that anyone who watches this film knows from moment one that that little bit of casting was not done because of cindy's extraordinary acting skills , but for her extraordinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous in any situation .  and in fair game most situations tend to find cindy either soaking wet or very hot and sweaty , but i'm sure that that is just a coincidence , no doubt that these situations were essential to the plot and the fact that cindy looks great wet , well , that's just a happy coincidence .  sure .  william baldwin isn't a bad actor .  unfortunately , he just doesn't demonstrate it at all in this movie .  i'm not sure if that's because most of his lines were just so hokey , or if he was trying to make cindy's acting look good .  if it was the latter , it worked .  cindy does a surprisingly good job here in her first movie .  which is not to say that she doesn't have room for improvement .  although to be fair to cindy , her lines were kinda cheesy in places .  so right about now you are no doubt asking yourself what sort of movie does cindy crawford , arguably the most beautiful woman on the planet , chose for her foray into the world of cinema ?  well , i'm glad you asked that question .  cindy plays a lawyer who by some convoluted plot twists becomes a target for former elite kgb agents .  why woud they target someone as likable as cindy , you ask ?  by the end of the movie you won't care .  the story is so contrived it isn't funny .  anyway after cindy gets blown out of the window of her house , without getting so much as a scratch i might add , she is placed into protective police custody under the watchful eve of william baldwin .  who's character , max kilpatric , a police detective , seems to possess the skills of some sort of fighting machine ( my guess is that the writers have seen way too many of steven seagal's early films ) .  the point is that the idea of the crawford and baldwin's characters of the run from these killer russians isn't all that bad of an idea , it's just everything around that basic idea which kinda stinks out loud .  the supporting cast members are nothing more that over acted stereotypes .  if i was baldwin , i'd hope this film disappears .  as for crawford , she may indeed have some acting ability .  unfortunately , any she does have is obscured by writing that goes beyond bad .  this movie was obviously written with cindy in mind , since the writers spend most of their time finding ways to capitalize off of her looks .  it's too bad they hadn't spent more time on a half decent plot , since ms . crawford is more than capable of looking just fine all by herself thank you very much .  unless you are a huge fan of either baldwin or crawford this is a movie that will only disappoint you . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " songcatcher " in the midst of this summer's fare of dinos revisited and romantic fiascoes , there are a few thoughtful movies - and this appalachian period drama is one .  oscar nominee janet mcteer ( " tumbleweeds " ) stars as dr . lily penleric , an accomplished musicologist who , back in that pre-feminist era , was refused a full professorship at her university .  determined to prove her worth , she ventures deep into the rugged mountains of north carolina , where her younger sister elna ( jane adams ) runs a school .  there in bear creek , she discovers a treasure-trove of traditional scots-irish and english folk ballads , given a unique interpretation by the insular locals .  excited , she sends for recording equipment and persuades vinie butler ( pat carroll ) and other self-sustaining mountain folk to share their musical heritage on her edison phonograph cylinders .  their music , as she puts it , is " as much a part of life here as the air you breathe . "  that's the main thrust of writer-director maggie greenwald's occasionally uneven culture-clash story , which is loosely based on olive dame campbell's foray through the blue ridge mountains in 1908 , but there's also some melodramatic romantic spice .  ornery , bearded , banjo-picking aidan quinn falls for the statuesque , passionate " songcatcher , " while elna secretly engages in a lesbian relationship with a colleague ( e .  katherine kerr ) .  i'm ready to buy the soulful soundtrack with vocalists like emmylou harris , iris dement , taj mahal and young opera star emmy rossum who plays a pivotal role as mcteer's wide-eyed prot ? g ? .  rated pg-13 , there's an intense scene of primitive childbirth .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " songcatcher " is an intelligent , extraordinary 8 , transported by the transcendent power of song . 
neg@ a slight romantic comedy with a feminist bent , but one with no edge to it .  it turns out to be a conventional film filled with the usual clich ? s and stock characters of this genre .  though it's a well-written and well-acted fluff piece , it still does not have too much to say that is surprising .  it's made for the gentle art-house set , those who don't want something too disturbing to think about .  it's about a critically successful writer husband , alec ( pryce ) , who is so self-absorbed that he's threatened by his department store floor-walking model wife , kate ( bouquet ) , who wants to be a writer .  she meets his crass publisher , vanni corso ( walken ) , another self-absorbed man , and a predictable relationship occurs .  the fireworks occur because she outgrows her husband's first impressions of her as someone who was impressed with his genius and worships at his feet .  she now wants her own identity and her independence .  the film looked like the usual sitcom stuff , and is plagued with the cheap set design features reserved for a tv movie .  the film sagged in the middle of the story from the weight of its tedium , and eventually landed on its rear end with its unspectacular climax .  it's set in london , and it opens as model kate rebuffs sexual advances by a wealthy american shopper , vanni .  she later meets him as her hubby's new upstart publisher who seeks to have her intellectual author husband in his stable in order to give him credibility as a publisher of quality , and he quickly wins favor with her by publishing her vanity novel .  alec who is an obnoxious grouse , someone whom it seems it would be impossible to live with , tries to do everything to stop his wife from having her book published--which only pushes her into the grasping arms of vanni .  the publisher is proud that he's a mamma's boy who never married and is a self-made man who has earned millions .  he has recently acquired a failing old london publishing house and plans to revitalize it , as he proudly tells kate : " if my father could sell pizzas in harlem , i could sell culture in europe . "  the only thing that couldn't be sold , is this stiff story and tired plot line .  the mystery to me , is how the lovely kate could like either man unless she was an insensitive dummy .  she soon divorces the beleaguered alec and marries the soon-to-become-beleaguered vanni .  when she writes a second novel , he rebuffs her the same way her first hubby did .  it ends with the same results that happened to hubby number one , as its story of ambition and lust winds down in a whimper .  a business affair was loosely based on the real-life literary and romantic travails of married authors barbara skelton and cyril connolly , in their celebrated 1950s love triangle . 
pos@ since their film debut in 1984 with the tightly wrought texas thriller " blood simple , " joel and ethan coen have been one of the most eclectic , original , and downright fascinating creative teams in modern hollywood .  their films are highly stylized , deeply embedded in a particular time and place , and their characters are more often than not everyday people who get caught up in highly unusual circumstances .  in " the big lebowski , " their first cinematic offering since the multiple academy award-winning " fargo , " the action takes place in los angeles during the gulf war , and the hero of the story is jeff lebowski , aka the dude .  the dude is played by jeff bridges -- one of hollywood's most underrated actors -- in the best stoned performance since sean penn stumbled through the halls of ridgemont high .  the dude is a simple man who has never quite made it out of the sixties .  he has shaggy , shoulder-length hair , a grizzled goatee badly in need of a trim , and he wears mostly stained tee-shirts , long shorts , and gellies without socks .  he smokes a lot of pot , drinks a lot of white russians , and is more than content to spend the majority of his time bowling with his two buddies , a slightly psychotic vietnam vet named walter sobchak ( john goodman ) and donny ( steve buscemi ) , one of those guys who always wants to be part of the conversation , but never quite makes it in .  one day , the dude is confused with another jeff lebowski ( david huddleston ) , this one being a millionaire philanthropist whose trophy wife , bunny ( tara reid ) , owes a lot of people a lot of money .  the main plot and all its accompanying side-plots and coenesque diatribes are far too complicated to get into here .  suffice to say that the dude becomes deeply involved with the big lebowski when bunny is kidnaped and the dude is asked to be a courier for the ransom money .  by the time all is said and done , walter has become deeply involved , as has the big lebowski's daughter , maude ( julianne moore ) , a feminist performance artist , a pornographer named jackie treehorn ( ben gazzara ) , and a group of german nihilists led by peter stormare , who was so great as the silent but deadly kidnaper in " fargo . "   " the big lebowski " plays like an amalgam of all the coen brothers' earlier efforts .  it shares their previous films' strong sense of time and place , as well as their send-ups of movie genres and political and cultural ideologies .   " lebowski " has the same kind of crazed caricatures that made " raising arizona " such a hoot ; it has surrealistic dream sequences ( one of which involves a busby berkley-like dance number ) that characterized the ending of " barton fink " ; and it has the same kind of cartoonish look and feel that pervaded " the hudsucker proxy . "  the film was shot by veteran cinematographer roger deakins , who has worked with the coens on three other films , " barton fink , " " the hudsucker proxy , " and " fargo . "  deakins always gives the coens' films a distinctive visual style , and here he does a brilliant job of capturing the bright colors of seedy los angeles in the early nineties , whether that by the obnoxious blue bowling suit worn by the dude's main competitor jesus quintana ( john turturro ) , or the strikingly manic dream sequences , one of which involves the dizzy spectacle of watching a strike from a bowling ball's point of view .  if " fargo " was the coen brothers' most restrained effort in years , " the big lebowski " marks their return to over-the-edge filmmaking .  it is overflowing with style and attitude , which helps make up for the scattered plot fragments that never quite come together in the end .  the coens fill the screen with lighting , set design , music , and hilarious performances from all the leads , especially bridges and the always reliable john goodman , who shows real comic timing in his untimely 'nam-inspired outbursts and his intense dedication to his adopted judaism .  with joel directing , ethan producing , and both writing , the coen brothers seem limitless in their capacity to turn our world inside out .  their talent lies not in their ability to reflect the norms of reality , but in their potential to dig out the darkest corners of life and bring them to light .  the coens rejoice in the oddballs of the world , and they put them center-stage to show that it's not just guys like the dude who are nuts , but the entire planet . 
neg@ as the twin surfer dudes , stew and phil deedle , lay bandaged and unconscious in the hospital , phil comes to first and chooses the coolest way to wake his brother .  yanking out his iv , he uses it like a water pistol to soak his brother's face .  this bit of lame physical humor is typical of disney's meet the deedles , a movie more to be endured that watched .   ( i stopped looking at my wife during the screening , since every time i did , she'd start sticking her finger in her throat .  and she's right , it is that bad . )  directed without any imagination by steve boyum , whose long background in film is mainly in stunts and in second unit direction , the film limps along at best .  boyum attempts to keep the pace moving by staging stunts , stunts and more stunts .  amazingly for someone with his background , he seems incapable of finding any fresh ones , and we have a car go off the road five different times -- maybe more .  but who's counting ?  and then there is the script by james herzfeld , whose only other film , tapeheads from a decade ago , was so awful that it is considered a cult classic .  meet the deedles , however , is painfully bad rather than laughably bad .  it will probably be in and out of the theaters like a tornado and is in no danger of becoming a classic anything .  herzfeld treats us to gratingly abysmal dialog that includes " your geyser's a geezer , " and " i'd like to put a deedle in her haystack . "  as the movie opens , the twins , who at one point describe themselves modestly as " a walking kodak moment , " are celebrating their 18th birthday .  as they ride a parasail high above the waters of waikiki , a truant officer pursues them on his jet ski .  as heirs to the fabulous fortune of the deedle empire , the boys are sent by their father to camp broken spirit at yellowstone to transform the two laid-back beach bums into men .  as they arrive in their wetsuits in yellowstone , they've got their surfboards , skateboards , and a hawaiian drink machine the size of an armoire .  their camp has gone out of business , but they are mistaken for new park rangers .  the rest of the movie has them fighting the park's overpopulation of prairie dogs as well as a deranged ex-ranger , played by dennis hopper , who is out to stop old faithful before its billionth birthday celebration , scheduled for later in the week .  hopper , who has made some wonderful movies , carried away being a recent favorite , does have a propensity for choosing some truly odoriferous material .  this isn't his worst acting , but meet the deedles is arguably the worst movie he's ever been in .  steve van wormer and paul walker , as stew and phil , give lifeless performances .  the only actor in the movie with any demonstrable talent is a cute little prairie dog named petey .  even the cinematography by david hennings is so prosaic that it manages to make yellowstone look dull .  to add insult to injury , hennings is fond of inappropriate close-ups , which only serve to remind us of the inanity of the dialog .  put a ten-foot pair of lips on the screen , and you naturally pay extra attention to what is said .  although boyum says in the notes that he is proud that his film is appropriate for families , one wonders how many skateboarders will attempt the movie's stunt of lying on your back on a skateboard while negotiating a busy and twisting mountain road .  they make it look like so much fun that i'm sure many will try some variation of the stunt .   " how could this possibly be worst , " asks phil .  just when you suspect it can't , the movie takes a turn further downhill .  its low point may have you looking for an airline barf bag .  after phil's girlfriend digs up a big mount of moist soil , they suck in a long worm .  like the two dog lovers eating spaghetti in lady and the tramp , their lips finally meet in a kiss .  as they pull back , their faces are full of the dirt that encased the worm they have just ingested .  meet the deedles runs about an hour and a half .  it is rated pg for a little bathroom humor and would be acceptable for kids around 6 and up .  my son jeffrey and his friend nickolas , both almost 9 , gave the show * * * .  they both thought the scenes with petey were among their favorites .  nickolas also mentioned the scene in which the circus bear drives a jeep , and jeffrey especially liked the one in which the circus elephant was referred to as dumbo . 
pos@ the sweet hereafter could serve as a textbook example of the difference between television movies and " real " movies .  consider for a moment what a television producer would do with a book that features a fatal school bus accident and a lawyer out to sign up the bereaved -- lots of hot sensationalism interrupted with breaks to sell beer and toothpaste .  top-flight writer and director atom egoyan delivers instead a film with tremendous power whose most notable trait is its touching subtlety .  based on a respected book of the same name by author russell banks , the movie represents a rethinking of the story's structure , not merely a literal adaptation of the novel .  told in linear form by four narrators in the book , egoyan's version happens instead in overlapping time sequences and without a narrator .  the author is even on record as applauding egoyan's changes .  in the press notes the book's author describes the story as " a parable of lost children . "  he says it asks what a town does in the absence of its children .  picking up on this , egoyan has a flashback in which a sitter , nicole burnell , played with grace by sarah polley , reads parts of " the pied piper " from an old , illustrated book to her two charges .  periodically throughout the picture , nicole's readings are heard in voice-over .  you have never heard this moving poem read so sweetly or in such an appropriate moment .  they and the rest of the town's children come into harm's way -- some live and others are seriously injured .  and the entire small canadian town where the accident occurs is never the same again .  although the physical damage is inflicted mainly on the children , the adults bear the emotional scars of the loss .  ian holm , in arguably the best performance of his distinguished career , plays mitchell stephens , an intense man of quiet misery .  mitchell is the outsider in the story set in a small , snow-encrusted community in the british columbian wilderness .  his mission there is a singular one , to sign up the parents so that he can sue someone , anyone , on their behalf .  if this seems crass , well it is , but mitchell approaches his job with the dedication of a religious zealot .  the story unfolds slowly and always believably .  each little aspect has its own fascination .  as mitchell interviews wendell and rita walker , played with quiet realism by maury chaykin and alberta watson , he has a simple task .  he wants them to suggest some model couple in the village who has a lost a child so that he can use that couple to form the basis of the suit .  wendell ticks off one town member after another and then , as one can in a small town , enumerates each person's numerous faults .  although the town is no peyton place , people there do have their foibles .  one of the best parents in the town appears to be billy ansell ( bruce greenwood ) , who rides his pickup behind the school bus everyday just so he can wave good-bye to his kids .  well , single parent billy's fault is that he has regularly scheduled trysts with the married rita .  his confessions to rita about his feelings of loss are one of the many heartfelt outpourings in the story .  the accident itself , a simple one of a bus hitting a patch of ice , isn't shown until the middle of the picture , but , nevertheless , the mystery about it builds throughout the film .  although the picture is no detective story , finding out exactly what happened is a subtheme in a movie that is primarily a character study of a town gripped by tragedy .  as the injured bus driver , gabrielle rose , dolores driscoll plays the role of a dedicated individual who loves kids with a passion and for whom the tragedy takes on special meaning .  to round out the story , mitchell has his own private tragedy to bear .  his daughter zoe ( caerthan banks ) is a drug addict who has bounced in and out of one half-way house and recovery center after another .  fond of calling her dad on his cell phone so she can ask for money or help , she interrupts him at many emotionally charged moments as he attempts to sign up the townsfolk .   ( " i can help you , " mitchell tries to reassure billy .   " not unless you can raise the dead , " billy snaps back .  mitchell's pitch is never an easy one and worrying about zoe only makes it harder . )  mychael danna's haunting music sets the stage for tragedy .  the cinematography by paul sarossy is sweeping in its outdoor grandeur , but it is in the warm , shadowy , intimate moments indoors where it works best .  the show , which is ripe for emotional manipulation , never plays with its audience .  still , when the house lights go up , you may feel as i did .  i could barely breathe ; i was so overcome by the sum total of what i had witnessed .  more than anything , the film is like a master painting .  each cinematic brush stroke is carefully laid down by egoyan with the beauty building with each dollop of paint .  with the final color in place , the masterpiece is complete , and the ending credits roll .  the sweet hereafter runs 1 : 50 .  it is rated r for mature themes , sexuality and some profanity and would be fine teenagers . 
neg@ the last line ( or near to that honor ) is the great butler , alfred ( the ubergod , michael gough ) saying , " i think we need a bigger bat cave , " or something to that note .  that's exactly what this film is - too big for its own good because it has too damn much .  cut batgirl out .  cut one of the villains .  it's too much to handle in one dosage .  it's so much that characters get left behind .  poor elle gets a mere 3 scenes and a subplot which is introduced but never finished in any way , shape or form .  and elle deserves better .  this is the fourth in the gigantic film series and the second from director joel schumacher .  it's also the fourth worst in the series ( and second worst from joel ) .  the series has been declining since its stunning debut , followed by the almost-as-stunning sequel and then the anti-climactic third one ( first by joel ) .  this one's not anti-climactic - i knew it was gonna suck .  it's up to joel to make it fun though .   " batman forever " was fun .  this is a big bore of over-produced action sequences and shallow characters .  i mean , this one bit .  i'm gonna put all the plot in one paragraph : mr . freeze ( ah-nold ) , who's wife was dying of some disease , has become the new big villain these days .  he's a huge ex-scientist who fell into some weird liquid ( hello ?  joker ? ) and now has a body temperature of a big fat zero and has a blue body .  batman ( george ) and robin ( chris ) fight him a bit but find they're growing apart .  meanwhile , another villain shows up , poison ivy ( uma ! ) , who was a dorky scientist chick working on flowers in south america with a twistet scientist ( john glover ) who kills her when she finds out he's used her research to develop an uberman , bane , who is basically a man pumped with chemicals which probably killed any personality he ever had .  she emerges from her chemicals ( don't ask 'cause i can't tell ya ) as a sexy woman ( the real uma ) who's poison when or if you kiss her and has some aphrodiasiatic scent she blows at people .  she starts to tear away at the dynamic duo .  meanwhile , alfred's dying of the same disease mr . freeze's wife has ( but in an earlier state than she ) , and his niece , barbara ( alicia ) , comes all the way from oxford without an english accent to get him away from the butler trade , but soon ( well , not really soon , it takes her 2 hours ) becomes batgirl .  meanwhile , in an unfinished subplot , bruce ( batman's alter-ego , if you forgot ) has been dating the lovely julie madison ( the even lovlier elle macpherson ) who wants a commitment after a year but he says nothing .  end of her for all we know .  mr . freeze ultimately teams with poison ivy and they want to freeze the world and then take it over growing new plants as their population ( don't ask ! ! ! ) .  the trio must team together " as family " to beat them .  there ya go .  not the whole story but no big context clues .  too much , right ?  right !  the films seems patched together of nice little ideas which would have made for a couple good sequels .  however , while tim burton nicely balanced the villain/batman storyline ( although not wonderfully ) , joel seems to do almost nothing with batman in this one .  he gets some corny speeches , a couple clever lines and that's it .  maybe some stunts .  for all this , i can't even comment on george clooney as batman - i hardly saw the guy !  and when i did , he had horrible dialogue to say .  i think michael keaton is the quintessential batman but val kilmer was too robotic and fake as batman in the last episode .  george is in between them .  he's not quintessential , he's not horrible , he's good .  but i'm sure next time when they decide to renovate the series since they'll be critically murdered for this sorry effort , we'll get a good script and clooney will shine ( if he still has the job ) .  the villains are the only interesting part of the series according to schumacher .  last time , we had the brawn of two face as played by tommy lee jones and the brains/comedy supplied by the riddler as realized by jim carrey .  this time we have a somewhat sympathetic and somewhat hatable villain ( the same guy ) , mr . freeze .  we feel bad for his mental/physical collapse but does he really need to kill everyone for plants ?  arnold isn't very good - too hokey but kinda sympathetic at some points .  when he watches old movies of his wife , he actually looks somber .  wow .  but uma makes the most of her seductive character , getting the right point between hamminess and seductiveness .  it's like she's almost parodying herself in " pulp fiction " at points .  she's incredibly hot and makes the movie pretty much a star better .  as for the lower bat-people , chris is the same as he was in " batman forever , " although i think his work in these is too hokey when he's best at quieter parts in " scent of a woman " or just plain cool parts in " fried green tomotoes . "  alicia - i love the girl but she's not particularly good in this film .  she can hypotheitically act , we all saw that in " clueless , " but her lines kinda sound weird .  and it isn't the mushy-mouth this time .  but in all fairness , she has virtually no part .  joel gets around to her occasionally and when she's on , she does stupid stuff . . . although  i know i'm not the only one who loved the catfight between her and uma . . .  and poor elle .  poor , poor elle .  i love that woman and she can also hypothetically act ( for those of us who saw " sirens " ) .  but she has no part ! ! !  it seems like joel had so much footage that he had to edit almost an hour out of the final product .  there are no " couch " scenes ( like my best friend noticed ) .  now listen to me on this one - in every " batman " flick , there's a couch scene .  in the original , it was with vicki .  in " returns , " it was a good make-out scene with selena .  and in the last one , it was a chat with nicole .  this one , it's nothing .  and batgirl does next-to-nothing in this film till the end when she's suddenly " part of the family . "  fortunately , we get a lot of alfred .  he's the always reliable butler , in case you didn't know , who has been with bruce all his life .  he's a god .  he's a father figure .  he's also dying .  this got to me .  i love alfred almost as much as bruce and to see him in a robe , not in his tux , and freaking dying just gets to me .  we also get the idea that he might have been unhappy the whole time . . . but  this is never answered , as this film is too cluttered .  but in defense , it does have some good parts , other than uma .  for one , george is a good batman but unfortunately gets nothing to do .  and there are some nice touches .  when they show the asylum at one point , they show the patient's belongings in a room and we see the riddler's costume .  i laughed .  and during a biker scene ( involving robin and batgirl - another subplot never handled past initiation period ) , we not only see coolio but a bunch of bad-asses dressed as " droogs " from " a clockwork orange . "  i laughed at all these .  the film falls apart around the five-minute mark during an enormously long action sequence which must last around 20 minutes . . . or  did it just feel like that ?  the film should serve as another in the long-line of films which demonstrate that we need more intelligent films nowadays .  people are fed up with stupid films .  that's why the word of mouth killed " the lost world ! "  that's why last year , indy films grossed more than ever .  that's why this will have a strong box-office initative from people who just want to see it , like me , but will die after a week or two when the word around the grapevine kills it .  that's why the next two big-budget aciton pics are john woo's " face/off " and barry sonnenfeld's " men in black , " both which are the first two to catch on to the wave early on .  i like joel schumacher more as a person than an artiste .  i like some of his films ( " flatliners , " " a time to kill " ) but a lot of them suck .  he's a really eccentric person and i loved one of his quotes about how he admits to being a mediocre director and that's what makes him great .  but his costuming for woody allen's " sleeper " was more interesting than this one ( and his costuming was cool - look for the nazi number ) .  i love the " batman " series .  the first two rocked and i did like the last one .  but this one is not going to be one that i watch repeatedly like the other three .  hopefully , this will also serve as a springboard to a better batman next time .  and maybe they'll get smart and bring back catwoman .  and michael keaton .  but we can only hope . 
pos@ i saw simon birch in a basically sold out theater , on a sunday afternoon .  when the movie was over and the audience was exiting , i didn't hear one negative comment , and i didn't have any to offer .  simon birch is primarily about the friendship of two twelve year old boys , simon ( ian michael smith ) and joe ( joseph mazzello ) , and what destiny holds for both of them .  simon is a dwarf , who was not supposed to last through the night after birth due to a weak heart .  surprisingly , he does , and now constantly reminds everyone that he is a living miracle .  simon thinks god has a plan for him , a purpose for his life , and his condition , he just doesn't know what .  joe is an illegitimate child ( referred to both comically and dramatically throughout the film as a bastard ) , who's mom ( ashley judd ) won't tell him who his father is .  simon has more than just dwarfism as a problem , the people in the town don't really like him , because he isn't " natural " .  even his own parents don't care about him , and are disappointed they didn't have a " normal " son .  he is also harassed in church by the local pastor , rev . russell ( david strathairn ) and simon's chain smoking sunday school teacher played by jan hooks .  the only person , other than joe , that really cares for simon is joe's mom , who he also looks up to as a mother .  it would be just simon's luck , that he would accidentally kills joe's mom , something you are told at the beginning of the movie .  joe , now motherless as well as fatherless , feels the need to find out who his real father is .  with the help of ben ( oliver platt ) , the local drama teacher and joe's mom's current boyfriend ( before her death ) , he will attempt to locate his dad and get in a little trouble on the way .  most of this trouble is laugh out loud funny , although not all of it is .  simon will also look for god's plan for him , although he loses a little faith along the way .  starring in the first ( and last ) five minutes of the film is hollywood's newest dramatic actor , jim carrey .  jim plays the adult version of joe and does a impressive job starting the film off , and then tying it up just right .  this is the first character jim has played that is not over the top in anyway , and he does a commendable job .  simon birch is written and directed by mark steven johnson , this is his first film as director , but he has written several films , including the grumpy old men series .  he does an outstanding writing and directing job here , the film's structure is flawless and its flows together perfectly .  the dialog goes from extremely funny to morose without missing a beat .  the cast is excellent .  joseph mazzello gives the stand out performance .  joseph is outstanding for someone of any age , not alone someone who just turned 15 .  ian michael smith , in his film debut , has such a strong physical presence that you believe he is simon without any hesitation .  other great performances are turned in by the rest of the supporting cast .  i loved this movie , it is far and away one of the best films i have seen all year .  take your whole family to see simon birch , it is a magnificent film- an american masterpiece . 
neg@ synopsis : melissa , a mentally-disturbed woman who likes to smoke , seduces doug , a minor-league baseball player who likes to study anatomy , work on motorcycles , and make out with his girlfriend in a public library .  when doug decides to stop seeing her , melissa maliciously takes revenge on those around him , including his girlfriend , his mother , and his cat .  comments : malicious , i suppose , is an acceptable moview for what it is : a cheap , b-movie thriller which rips off dozens and dozens of spurned-psycho-lover-who-wants-revenge films ( like fatal attraction , hand that rocks the cradle , etc . etc . ) that have come before it .  malicious , however , really doesn't provide very many particularly suspenseful moments .  the plot starts off energetically enough , the main characters are introduced and the affair between doug and melissa begins and ends pretty early on in the film .  it starts to drag , unfortunately , after this .  melissa will obviously try to take her revenge on doug ( as always seems to happen in movies like these ) , but she does so in unimaginative ways that have been done in other , better thrillers before .  she drugs someone .  she kills a family pet and leaves it in the girlfriend's apartment .  and , of course , she stalks , so we see a number of shots , which are supposed to be suspenseful , where she's spying on doug and his girlfriend .  i won't reveal the ludicrous ending to this turkey , but i warn you that it's both painfully obvious and a real yawner .  john vernon does a remarkably good job at playing the not-so-bright baseball jock who initially gets swept away by melissa ( one of the script's faults is to try to pass off a character like this as a pre-med student ) .  the same cannot be said , though , for molly ringwald .  at times , she can effectively pull off the obsessed lover routine , especially during her silent , i'm-going-to-stare-you-down scenes .  at other times , however , she just seems somehow goofy and out of place .  in one particular scene which i guess was supposed to be suspenseful , she screeches " f--k you , you b-----d " and throws a phone .  she delivers the line so ridiculously that one can't help but laugh .  malicious certainly isn't the worst thriller of its kind out in the video racks ( a number of really fat turkies in this genre are out there ) , but it isn't all that good or original either .  feel free to treat this film maliciously , watch something else . 
pos@ the seasoned capt . dudley smith ( james cromwell ) questions his new protege , ed exley ( guy pearce ) about his political views when it comes to police work .   " would you plant evidence to get a conviction if you knew the person to be guilty ?  would you shoot a man in the back if you knew that it was the only way to make sure he got what he deserved ? "  exley , squeaky clean , innocent , and pent with the desire to perform his new duties with integrity and honesty quickly answers with a pointed 'no . '  stunned , smith pleads , " then , for the love of god , don't be a detective . "  la confidential is a dandy piece of filmmaking that brings us back to the classic times of hollywood in the 50s .  organized crime was the biggest concern , corruption existed everywhere , and every cop had his own way of getting the job done .  there was " hollywood " jack vincennes ( kevin spacey ) who gets most of his information from the editor of a sleazy tell-all/show-all tabloid , sid hudgeons ( danny devito ) .  sporting dark sunglasses and a white sports coat , he isn't afraid to flash his tinseltown style .  detective bud white ( russell crowe ) has only a narrow-minded view of the law , and he uses excessive force to exact his unique kind of interrogation and brutal justice .  and then there is golden boy exley , wide-eyed and ambitious but extremely naive .  a horrible multiple murder begins to draw these three men together , each of whom become inexorably connected in their search for truth , action , and personal vindication .  almost immediately , an arrest is made .  but something doesn't seem quite right .  new developments become sinuous as the story begins to draw us deeper into the labyrinth of corruption and crime within the department .  suspicion and questions begin to mount .  odd alliances are created .  and as layers of the truth become revealed , the story grows more complex and intriguing by the moment .  when the mystery expands , we see other seemingly guilty characters enter the lives of these three cops , including a high-priced hooker ( kim basinger ) and a shady millionaire ( david strathairn ) .  all of the characters' levels of involvement are not immediately clear .  we watch with riveted fascination to learn more about why they are there and their stake in the case .  we sense a cross-pollination of clues that brings us , the audience , closer to the truth .  we hope that the three detectives can throw away their spite for one another and can pull their resources together in order to untangle the intricately created web of mystery .  absorbing and affecting , this movie has all the necessary ingredients to create a terrific gourmet serving of film noir .  it boasts mysterious figures in control , double-crosses , hard information from sleazy sources , dirty politicians , corrupt cops , haunting women , and hard-nosed cops experiencing moral ambiguity .  the underlying mystery is compelling .  the look and feel of the movie is gorgeous .  the entire cast is crisp and wonderful to watch ( i wouldn't be surprised if cromwell received an oscar nomination for his performance ) .  and , the dialogue is rich and memorable .  the best line of the movie is spoken when a key player dispenses advice to one of the detectives unsure of what to do .   " don't start trying to do the right thing , boy-o , " says he .   " you haven't had the practice . "   " l . a . confidential'' triumphantly achieves the rare gift of complexity and coherence while satisfying our desire for a good old-fashioned movie . 
neg@ i have nothing against unabashedly romantic films .  when done right , with at least slightly evident restraint , they can be engaging , sweeping , appealing .  but it's a hell of a shame when someone botches it as badly as nora ephron botched sleepless in seattle , a hollow , boring romance that should appeal only to the most gullible of viewers ; the ones willing to buy into ephron's whiny views of life and romance .  tom hanks and meg ryan , two of hollywood's most likeable stars play sam baldwin and annie reed , repectively .  baldwin's wife recently died and he moved to seattle with his son , jonah , seeking to get away from the familiar surroundings which remind him of his late spouse .  jonah senses tension and calls a talk radio show to tell the world about their problems .  sam seems ready to strangle his son for calling the show , but when he gets on the phone he begins pouring his heart out .  ephron has him do this so that annie reed ( meg ryan ) can hear it .  annie is a happy woman .  she is engaged to walter , an allergy-prone working man and seems to be perfectly content .  but after hearing sam the widower on the radio show , she becomes convinced that he is her destiny and is willing to risk her engagement for it .  five years after this movie hit theaters , hanks , ryan and ephron would team up again in the far better , although still sub-par romantic comedy you've got mail , which is about people who hate each other in real life falling in love on the internet .  at least that movie had a sense of spontaneity .  here it seems that the first one hundred minutes exist solely to set up for the last five .  the fact that sam and annie will finally meet is so excruciatingly obvious that everything else is perfunctory .  sleepless in seattle is full of wonderful performers ; from its two leads to supporting stars like bill pullman and rosie o'donnell .  but none of them can save the film from being a bore .  its characters are dull and empty , its script isn't funny or particularly charming .  the script has a fundamental problem : annie gives up , for little reason , her life with walter to pursue " sleepless in seattle , " whom she has never even seen .  it's the kind of life decision that real people don't make , and its a major , unforgivable plausibility sacrifice .  in essence , this movie's purpose is to head towards a goal that shouldn't even exist .  it's a ten minute short film with ninety-five minutes of filler .  if you were to show me sleepless in seattle and i didn't have to review it , you could just call me " asleep in philadelphia . "   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
pos@ susan granger's review of " the perfect storm " ( warner bros . )   " more people die on fishing boats , per capita , than working in any other job in the u . s . .  every journey a fishing boat makes can be an all-or-nothing risk .  it is life at its most exhilarating and its most terrifying , " says director wolfgang petersen ( " das boot " ) .  and that's just what he captures in this true story of struggle and humanity aboard a swordfishing boat , the andrea gail , sailing out of gloucester , massachusetts , in late october , 1991 .  early in bill wittliff's screenplay , based on sebastian junger's best-seller , we meet the crew of six .  the veteran captain ( george clooney ) is frustrated because he can't find fish on the grand banks , yet a rival skipper ( mary elizabeth mastrantonio ) brings in huge hauls .  his right-hand man ( mark walhberg ) needs money to build a new life with his girl-friend ( diane lane ) .  there's a devoted dad ( john c . reilly ) with an estranged wife and son , a free-spirited jamaican ( allen payne ) , a lonely guy ( john hawkes ) , and a last-minute replacement with a bad attitude ( william fichtner ) .  the skipper's convinced he can change his bad luck streak in remote flemish cap , and he does .  but then trouble begins .  there's a rogue wave , a man overboard and the ice machine breaks - with 60 , 000 lb .  of fish that could spoil .  but that's minor compared with a deadly monster storm approaching which a boston meteorologist describes as " a disaster of epic proportions " that also threatens the lives of a coast guard helicopter rescue team trying to save three people stranded on a sailboat on the high seas .  it's formulaic and there are cliches , but the walls of water , created by fluid dynamics simulating real-life phenomena , are awesome .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the perfect storm " is a terrifying , suspenseful 8 .  hang on for the white-knuckle thrill ride of the summer ! 
neg@ the happy bastard's quick movie review  the concept of enjoying a stupid comedy is best realized as keeping it stupid , really .  shift gears even once and the audience can be thrown miserably out of control .  sadly , that is the case with kingpin , a film directed by the farrelly brothers , the duo that brought us there's something about mary and dumb and dumber .  since the duo directed and didn't write the script , i can assume that's part of the problem .  the story seems good enough : a pro bowler in the 1970's by the name of roy munson ( woody harrelson ) is sitting on top of the world .  his popularity has gone through the roof and he's getting his career off the ground .  then , however , he runs into ed mccracken ( bill murray ) , a rival bowler with hardly any real consideration for , well , anything .  these two form an ill-timed relationship that involves risky betting , and , before roy sees it coming , ed's abandoned him and he's about to lose his hand in a bowling ball machine .  forward seventeen years later , where roy has become quite the loser , complete with mechanical hand , torn-up car , and , of course , the occasional knocking up of the ugly-ass landlord to avoid paying rent for a while .  however , he finds a glimmer of a hope upon a visit to a local bowling alley , where he runs into an amish kid named ishmael ( randy quaid ) , who has quite the bowling arm .  with the kid's help , he figures he can be known again , particularly at the biggest bowling tournament rapidly approaching in reno , nevada .  of course , the amish kid needs some coaxing , particularly when you consider , well , he's amish .  this leads to some of the best comic scenes in the film , such as roy's process of removing horseshoes or milking the cow .  finally , the duo get on the road and , along the way , pick up an additional helper- a beautiful hustler ( played by the gorgeous vanessa angel ) .  the main problem i had with kingpin wasn't the fact it wasn't funny .  in fact , it does have some rather hilarious scenes in it , such as the aformentioned above and roy's explanation of not having children ( something involving a cheese grater ? ) .  but that's just it- scenes .  there's a couple of really serious scenes that throw off the entire momentum of the movie , like the abuse angel takes from her hustler ex-boyfriend .  i mean , was this really necessary ?  couldn't have this been handled just a bit wackier ?  i mean , this is a comedy , why throw ethics in ?  particularly in a farrelly brothers vehicle , where hair gel can be easily mistaken ?  that really ruined it , however , and that's too bad .  the acting is top notch , especially from angel and murray , and the really funny scenes are worth noting .  still , if you're going to think dumb , think dumb all the way through , ok ?  at least the farrelly brothers got back on track with mary or i'd still be a little bit irked . 
pos@ those of you who frequently read my reviews are not likely to be surprised by the fact that i have not read victor hugo's novel les miserables .  i don't know if a lot of people have , though i imagine many are familiar with the popular musical based on the novel .  i haven't even seen that .  going into this film , i had almost no knowledge of the story or its characters ( i even expected the film to be a musical ) .  walking away from it , i'm kind of glad i had no prior experience with the material .  writer/director bille august's film version is a straightforward , beautifully told film .  liam neeson stars as the miserable jean valjean ; in the beginning , he has just been released from a 19-year prison sentence .  he is allowed to stay in a convent by a kindly priest despite his rude and destructive behavior .  the priest's words of wisdom influence him , and he makes a vow to change himself .  nine years later , we are informed that he is now the mayor of a town called vigo ; nobody knows his real name , and that he is wanted for skipping his parole nine years ago .  conflicts arise when inspector javert ( geoffrey rush ) is assigned to vigo .  valjean remembers javert as one of the prison guards who constantly beat him , and javert remembers jean to be a convict .  javert is hell-bent on upholding the law , and he does everything in his power to bring jean to justice .  along the way , valjean meets and falls in love with a peasant woman , fantine ( uma thurman ) , and vows to take care of her daughter , cosette ( played later by claire danes ) .  les miserables is visually a solid and often striking picture .  the production design by anna asp is authentic and vast , and the sets don't look like sets ( they look like real towns and villages ) ; gabriella pescucci's costumes are noticeably spectacular .  basil poledouris' soundtrack is thick and usually well-placed ( though it does get a bit heavy at times ) .  many scenes in the film have a memorable photographic quality , such as the climax , which takes place next to a dark river in the grey obscurity of early evening .  augusts keeps the story simple ( which i hear is a good thing , since the novel is so complex ) and easy to follow .  he manages to develop the main characters and most of the subplots adequately .  i was also impressed that he didn't go overboard with flash and style , which is something so many directors seem to be doing to classic stories these days ( such as baz luhrmann's vicious tragedy william shakespeare's romeo + juliet ) .  this film feels solid and whole , and each scene has a certain amount of importance and vigor that keeps the audience interested .  liam neeson is terrific in the main role ; neeson is the kind of actor who does solemn desperation extremely well , and valjean is certainly a man who clearly fits that adjective .  thurman , in her small role , is very good , and proves that she has a lot of range and can perform in a very non-glamorous role such as this one .  rush is absolutely incredible as javert ; i don't remember ever feeling so strongly about a villain as i do here ; he adds depth and complexity with subtle glances and nuances , and effortlessly makes each of his scenes intense .  i can't be as charitable for danes , however ; though i know she is a talented actress , here she tends to overact when it might have been better to underplay the character a bit .  les miserables is , as i've said , a solid , intelligent motion picture .  my only complaint is that it feels a bit too easy , and perhaps too staged .  each scene is grand and huge , and exploding with poledouris' score , but i didn't always want them to be .  for the most part , les miserables is not a subtle or deep picture .  it's a good movie , and tells its story well , but august tends to hand-feed us themes and scenes that would have worked better had they been more subtle .  however , in a film this exciting and well-produced , a few minor flaws are easily overlooked . 
neg@ in french , the phrase " film noir " literally means " black film . "  webster defines it as " a type of crime film featuring cynical malevolent characters in a sleazy setting and an ominous atmosphere that is conveyed by shadowy photography and foreboding background music . "  classic film noir , including such memorable fare as " the big sleep , " the original " cape fear , " and orson welles' striking " a touch of evil , " employed black and white photography to emphasize the long shadows associated with the genre .  color came into play with neo-noir films like " chinatown " and " blade runner . "   " l . a . confidential , " easily the best film of 1997 , is a wonderful piece of contemporary neo-noir filmmaking .  for a textbook example of how to take all the elements of neo-noir and create an absolute mess , there's " palmetto . "  based on " just another sucker , " a short story written by british author rene raymond under the pseudonym james hadley chase , " palmetto " shows what happens when a filmmaker puts style ahead of substance .  director volker schlondorff ( " tin drum , " the handmaid's tale " ) stated " we weren't even sure for a long time if it was going to be a thriller or a comedy . "  it shows .   " palmetto " is too preposterous too be taken seriously as a thriller and too ponderous to work as a comedy .  the story begins when journalist harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is released from prison .  someone turned state's witness and revealed that harry was framed , a " reward " for blowing the lid on corruption in the small florida town of palmetto .  bitter and broke , harry plans to hitchhike to miami and start his life over , but ex-girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) appears to return him to palmetto .  while hanging out at a bar , he notices that a beautiful woman has left her purse in a phone booth .  harry pockets her cash , only to have the woman reappear and catch him with her money in his pocket .  no problem , though .  the radiant blonde is rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue , ) the young wife of a very rich older man with heart problems , and she has a proposition for harry .  rhea needs " a threatening voice and someone to collect the ransom " for the staged kidnapping of her teenage stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny . )  the girls want to bilk a half-million dollar " ransom " from the old man and will happily give harry $50 , 000 for helping with the scam .  things go wrong , of course .  odette is found dead , leaving harry frantically trying to dispose of the corpse and cover his tracks .  in an ironic twist , harry is asked to work for the local d . a . 's  office .  they need a press liaison to field questions about odette's kidnapping and feel that harry is the perfect man for the job .  not a bad set-up for a noir film , if only schlondorff knew how to handle the material , but he never settles on a consistent tone .  the actors don't know what to do with their characters either , muddling the proceedings even further .  as if that wasn't enough , the story suffers from major problems in logic .  woody harrelson is a talented actor with an admirable willingness to take on risky parts , but he's lost here .  presented as a crusading journalist who was horribly wronged , it makes no sense that harry would be stupid and dishonest enough to get caught up in this scheme .  harrelson clearly doesn't know what to do with harry's character , so he spends most of the film glowering , sweating and generally acting miserable .  meanwhile , elisabeth shue gives a goofy performance , behaving like a vamp on nitrous oxide .  as the stepdaughter , chloe sevigny lays on so many slurpy quirks that she comes off like juliette lewis jr . despite a number of steamy scenes , there's no chemistry between harrelson and the women .  to make matters worse , schlondorff badly dubs in dialogue while the character's lips are running over each others bodies .  two particularly bad scenes highlight the film's problems .  while driving with a body in his trunk , harry has a minor car wreck and a cop shows up .  the officer wants to help change harry's flat tire and asks him to open the trunk .  harry's pathetic attempts to keep the trunk closed might have worked if played as comedy , but under schlondorff's grim direction , the scene is just embarrassing .  the film's nadir comes when a bad guy prepares to kill harry and nina .  we're supposed to be horrified watching our hero dangling over a bathtub filled with acid , but by this point the film has foundered so badly that the scene is merely reminiscent of when jessica and roger rabbit were suspended over a vat of dip .  had " palmetto " been played with tongue firmly in cheek , it might have been an entertaining shaggy dog story .  but under the harsh direction of schlondorff , the film is just a sluggish paint-by-numbers exercise in neo- noir cluelessness .  avoid this nonsense and go see " l . a . confidential " instead . 
pos@ after a rather disappointing " mary railly " , stephen frears is now officially back in business with a comeback worthy of praise .  this is one of the best surprises of this season -- a sweet , small budget comedy with a big heart .  in fact it's not even a comedy .  it's a drama or even more precise -- a clever satire on human relationships and needs .  based on a 1995 critically acclaimed novel by british author nick hornby , ``high fidelity'' is a wry and likable story about a man's quest for fulfillment and happiness .  rob gordon was a dj .  it seems that he could make everything spin -- except his own life .  now he owns championship vinyl , a little musical store , somewhere in new york .  when he suddenly gets dumped by his girlfriend , a gorgeous blond attorney , life suddenly looses every purpose .  decimated , humiliated and on the verge of a mental ( and emotional ) breakdown , he starts meditating over his life and the way it could have been -- about what's right and what's important .  he starts " categorizing " life , dividing it into " top 5 lists " .  and the most important is the " top 5 list " over the most painful breakups of his life , starting with 5th grade , when he found his young girlfriend with another boy .  though you might think that people change , grow more mature with age , it just doesn't seem that way and all rob's relationships were different versions of that first .  where did he go wrong ?  was it he that screwed up ?  or maybe life just stinks ?  while he is lost in his own self-pity , he must think of the " top 5 list " over his needs for the future , find the right elements and mix his life together .  with clever parallels to the cult of celebrity , music and with incredibly direct narration , it addresses the average audience member , in other words -- people like you and me .  although a lot of this honor should be addressed to the screenwriter ______ and frears , the director , the acting is equally important as the written word .  and here john cusack should absolutely be mentioned .  he is simply superb .  it is as much his movie as it is frears' .  the film would not be the same without him .  cusack -- whose character is sadder , wiser and 35 -- brings intelligence and warmth to post- mod irony .  most of his dialogue is delivered directly to the camera -- not an easy task -- but cusack pulls it off .  his interpretation feels so emotionally right , so incredibly realistic and precise that frears' message simply can't be ignored or overseen .  the other members of the cast do an equally remarkable job .  both ______ and jack black are fabulous .  even catherine zeta jones appears in a role where she actually acts , not just looks beautiful .  however , the most unexpected pleasant surprises is provided by todd louiso who delivers a spectacular comic performance as rob's co-worker and friend dick .  this is such an impressive achievement that it's almost worth a oscar-nomination .  he is simply a joy to behold .  otherwise , everyone are in their place , and at the right time -- all part of frears' colorful blend .  pretty much like edward norton's " keeping the faith " , this film doesn't follow any formula or belong to any genre -- it's dramatic , tragic , sarcastic , comic and even cynical , but never bitter or angry .  it's a little bit of everything , pretty much like life itself .  nothing seems unreal or staged .  it reflects reality as a mirror .  as you watch it , you go through the same emotional problems as the main character .  you feel and think and reflect .  this effect has become a rarity nowadays .  although it's primarily about the perils of love , ``high fidelity'' is secondarily about pop music .  rob owns championship vinyl and his employees , timid dick ( todd louiso ) and overbearing barry ( jack black ) , are fellow music snobs .  music is the language in their lives , the measure by which they define themselves and mark the significant events of their lives .  and so does the movie .  it is as much a musical film as anything else , as rob's journey is wonderfully portrayed through carefully inserted musical fragments .  in the end , you have gained something while watching it .  it's not the film of the century or even of the year .  it's not an special effects extravaganza .  it doesn't require big explosions or digital creatures to succeed .  it's a small movie about the big things .  and even though it does not contain heavy philosophy , you feel as if you have experienced something of significance , and you will experience that nice warm feeling for quite some time . 
neg@ one night , during a torrential downpour that flooded the streets , we went to see -- what else -- hard rain .   " so , are we all going to die ? "  the sheriff ( randy quaid ) asks in the story's opening line as he evacuates his flooded town .  the answer is pretty much yes , but not nearly soon enough .  and to add insult to injury , the supposedly dead , regretfully , often turn out not to be so .  populating this bad tv-movie-of-the-week material are a host of talented actors .  one can only hope they were rewarded handsomely for acting in this hopelessly muddled picture .  besides the obvious hardships of acting most scenes while dog paddling in the water , they will all receive black marks on their records for appearing in this dismal movie .  graham yost's script serves up one cliche after another for the actors , who thankfully managed to mumble quite a few of the lines .  director mikael salomon's staging is so confusing that you may have trouble figuring out what is happening .  the befuddled presentation is exacerbated by peter menzies , jr . 's dark and ugly cinematography .  the plot concerns an armored car that gets stuck in the raging water .  onboard are guards tom and his uncle charlie .  christian slater , who is much better in his tender roles as in untamed heart , plays tom .  edward asner drops by briefly to take on the role of the soon to be dead charlie .  coming to their " rescue " is a gang headed by jim , played on autopilot by the great actor morgan freeman .  he views the loot , three million dollars worth , as his retirement plan .  the entire movie is one big watery chase with the sheriff and his posse tracking jim and his gang , who are in turn after tom .  along the way , tom picks up a love interest in the person of a crucifix-weapon wielding woman named karen , played in a totally wasted performance by minnie driver .  the action sequences are repetitive and without much interest .  they do feature lots of explosions and gunfire to keep you awake .  christopher young's emotionless score for the film has a single trait , ear-shattering loudness .  the plot holes are as big as the ones in the dam that breaks , submerging the town .  the characters have an infinite number of bullets and rarely do they have to bother reloading their guns .  the weapons and the ammunition spend most of the time under water or being rained on but always fire perfectly .  when one of the bad guys drops a gun into the water , it stays in the same place until much later when tom swims to get it , even though the swift water is so strong it is uprooting large trees .  counting these improbabilities is one of the more enjoyable ways to spend your time as you wait for the characters to kill each other .  the show has a single , but unprintable , good line .  betty white plays an incessantly bossy wife , and , when her hen-pecked husband finally told her off , our audience roared with laughter .  the show concludes with a sickening set of twists .  the best that can be said of the picture is that it is merely stupefyingly awful as opposed to laughably bad .  hard rain runs 1 : 37 .  it is rated r for violence and would be fine for teenagers .   ( the two families behind us shockingly had a half-dozen preschoolers among them . ) 
pos@  " well this is not mission : difficult , mr . hunt , it's mission : impossible .  difficult should be a walk in the park for you . "  ---agent swanbeck ( sir anthony hopkins ) , the series' new agent phelps , takes ethan hunt ( tom cruise ) down a notch .  a russian scientist ( rade serbedzija ) has created a new virus ( and its antidote ) called chimera that destroys its host within twenty hours of injection .  a rogue imf agent , sean ambrose ( dougray scott ) , wants to use the disease and cure to blackmail a pharmaceutical company into selling him enough stock to make him owner of the company ( he knows it will soon be worth its weight in gold thanks to the outbreak of the virus he is going to cause ) .  posing as ethan hunt , ambrose gains the confidence of the scientist long enough to get only the cure , not realizing that the scientist had injected himself with the virus to prevent exactly what ambrose was trying to do .  the real ethan hunt is called in from his vacation to persuade beautiful thief nyah nordoff-hall ( thandie newton ) to assist the imf team in retrieving the stolen goods .  ethan and nyah fall quickly in love , but ethan soon finds himself in a real dilemma when he learns that his new love has only been hired because she was a former lover of ambrose's .  reluctantly , he sets up nyah to be rescued from prison by ambrose so she can infiltrate his compound and send back intelligence to the team .  ethan must race against time to keep ambrose from obtaining and spreading the virus and prevent any harm from coming to nyah .  although the first mission : impossible film was a moderate box office success , audiences panned it because they felt the plot was too confusing and there wasn't much action ( although being a fan of the series both old and new , i thought the movie was pretty decent and especially gutsy to make phelps a bad guy ) .  that problem has been rectified in the sequel by making the plot more accessible ( courtesy of one of the writers of the previous entry , robert towne ) and by turning the film into one gigantic action set piece under the steady hand of action film guru john woo .  the end result is one of the most entertaining ( yet simple ) action films made in a long while .  unfortunately , the first forty minutes or so are relatively slow , dwelling mainly on ethan and nyah's quickly blossoming romance and seeming more in place in a james bond film than with the less glamorous mission : impossible tv series .  ethan's conflict is a compelling one , but it seems very rushed ( and comes about because of a near fatal car wreck that ethan himself causes ! ) .  john woo handles all of this with an artistic flair that seems out of place , featuring a great deal of slow fades and dramatically framed close-ups .  the surreal nature of these sequences are distracting and ultimately a detriment to the film .  thankfully though , at the point ambrose discovers nyah's deception , mission : impossible ii becomes very entertaining and action-packed .  robert towne's screenplay takes some of the conventions set up in the first film and parodies them during a sequence where ethan must break into a high-rise building and retrieve the remaining specimens of the virus .  after that , the action scenes just begin to build in intensity , as is the case with many of woo's previous high-octane films .  the final half hour is an all out assault of action ( a good deal of which is ruined by the trailer , unfortunately ) .  as far as summer entertainment goes , mission : impossible ii is serviceable fare .  anyone looking for hardcore action won't be disappointed ( except for during the first half of the film , perhaps ) .  even if you weren't a fan of the first film , this entry deserves some checking out .  [pg-13] 
neg@ the swooping shots across darkened rooftops suggest a very tim burton movie , but , alas , no caped crusader descends to save * this * film .  instead , it's a skeletal housemaid ( julia roberts ) who must bear witness to this unfortunate retelling of " dr .  jekyll and mr . hyde . "  for a few , fleeting , maddening moments , director stephen frears ( dangerous liaisons ) gets everything just right-- the tone , the colors , the characters ; all the ingredients to make a most-powerful potion out of valerie martin's best-selling novel .  yet it fizzles too quickly ; the volatile mixture losing potency from the very first scene .  casting is a large part of the problem .  the story all but collap- ses around ms . roberts-- she doesn't have the range for this kind of drama .  her accent also comes and goes , though it's nowhere near as glaring as the total lack of chemistry between her and co-star john malkovich .   ( he looks the same in both of his roles-- an incredible fact that's missed by everyone in the story ! )  the very british supporting cast-- including michael gambon and george cole-- gives credibility to the smaller parts .  glenn close also appears as a madam that the good doctor calls upon .  her performance is as close to intentional camp as the movie ever gets and-- as a bonus-- offers a likely peek at her upcoming cruella de ville in the live-action 101 dalmantions .  the biggest botch in mary reilly is suspense : there is none .  no terror , no tension ; nothing .  without any weight , wit , or wonder to propel the story , the viewer is left with little more to do than pay attention to the period detail , a few buckets of blood , and stuart craig's fabulously dreary production design .  all of which gets old after about an hour , at which point i recommend leaving .   ( the pacing in the second-half is especially abominable .  if you * do * stick it through , your sole reward is a half-hokey special effect depicting the infamous transformation . )  mr . frears reportedly recut his film several times , missing several release dates in the process .   ( obviously , no one advised him to throw up his hands and just turn the whole damned thing over to mel brooks .  blucher ! )  mary reilly is the second robert louis stevenson story of the month , after muppet treasure island .  perhaps mr . frears should consult with brian henson on future projects .  i daresay that even ms . piggy is a better choice for a certain roles than julia roberts .  and she does have a great chop ! 
pos@ the happy bastard's 30-second review  big daddy  happy gilmore as a father ?  of course !  that's the latest scenario presented by adam sandler in the new movie big daddy , a movie that's passable but isn't really considered some of sandler's best work .  he doesn't actually play happy gilmore in the movie , but a variation of him .  he's sonny coufax , a man who's living off a settlement he got for a cab running over his foot and his one-day-a-week gig as a tollbooth man ( tollbooth willie ? ) .  his girlfriend ( kristy swanson ) is fed up with his lifestyle and demands a change before she leaves him .  enter a 5-year old kid , who's mysteriously dropped at his doorstep and intended for his preppy roommate ( jon stewart ) , who's off in china on a business trip .  from there , coufax basically acts as the kid's father , teaching him different things like peeing on the side of a building and tripping up skateboarders with sticks .  he even manages to use the kid in a sort of con game to get the attention of a beautiful law office worker ( joey lauren adams ) , but , somehow , he also garners the attention of social services , who aren't particularly pleased with coufax's actions , as he pretends to be his roommate to keep the kid .  the reason i say it's not really sandler's best work is because it gets really sappy towards the end of a movie , showing some odd feelings that somehow didn't really belong in a sandler vehicle .  i mean , it fits the movie's tone and everything , and sandler handles it well , but it's just oddly placed , that's all .  fortunately , it doesn't destroy the goofy glee path it's been following and it still makes you feel good .  sandler does a good job here , as he does in most of his movies .  rob schneider , however , is irritating as his friend , an immigrant delivery boy who can't read .  stewart , in his minor time on screen , is great , and adams remains a joy to watch .  look for steve buscemi as well as a homeless bum .  he's a hoot .  directed by dennis dugan ( director of happy gilmore ) , the movie remains a good couple of hours to pass the time with .  again , there are faults , but , hey , everyone needs to get emotional sometimes . 
neg@ my giant is two movies for the price of one , but neither is worth the cost of admission , even if you get in free .  as lamely directed by michael lehmann , the picture tries to be a comedy by using and reusing every giant joke in the book .   ( " without goliath , david is just some punk throwing rocks . " )  languidly paced throughout , the movie becomes increasingly lugubrious as the screenplay by david seltzer ( the omen ) meanders toward its sad ending .  since it's rarely funny or convincingly dramatic , what the filmmakers thought they were doing remains a mystery .  other than a few nice visuals , there's nothing to recommend the picture .  with great film comedies under his belt from when harry met sally ? to the original city slickers , billy crystal has shown that he's more than the world's best oscar host .  he does , however , have a propensity for choosing hopeless material as in last year's father's day and this year's my giant .  one wonders if he reads the script before agreeing to go ahead with a project .  surely reading the one for my giant would have shown that there was nothing there .  perhaps he thought he could ad lib it into success .  or maybe he wants to be a dramatic actor and thought he could do something serious with the movie's somber tone .  the most charitable thing that could be said about it is that it is so ineffectual that people will probably forget they saw it by the next day .  this one-joke movie's single idea is to place real-life basketball player gheorghe muresan , who stands seven and a half feet tall , into as many visually striking situations as possible .  sammy ( crystal ) , an agent currently without clients , is rescued after a car accident by a sweet romanian giant named max ( muresan ) .  after throwing out constant one-liners ( " either god is in the salvage business or big foot just took my car . " ) ,  sammy decides to get serious , seeing max as his meal ticket .  and although he doesn't like it , he's willing to sign max up to do disgusting events like a wrestling match with a half-dozen dwarfs .   ( the movie itself knows no bounds as it contains one of the most putrid and lengthy vomiting scenes ever . )  after a series of missed opportunities , the comedic part of the movie is over , and it turns into a cheap and maudlin disease movie .  we learn that max's condition is terminal , and he will soon die .  to be fair , the movie does contain a few good scenes - all of which you can see in the trailers .  let's hope billy gets himself a pair of reading glasses before he signs up for another movie .  my giant runs too long even at just 1 : 37 .  it is rated pg for violence and profanity and would be acceptable for kids around ten and up .  my son jeffrey and his friend matthew , both 9 , gave the movie a single star and had nothing good to say about it .  matthew pointed out that it " is not as good as it could have been or should have been . "   ( amen . )  he went on to comment that he did not like the way the movie changed completely in the middle .  jeffrey complained particularly about how gross the movie was . 
pos@ it's tough to really say something nice about a type of person who's so ethnocentric that any humanity they once had is now gone , but by god , " american history x " does it , and for that , i commend it .  it not only takes balls but intelligence to make a human being out of a neo-nazi skinhead , a kind of person who dedicates their lives to hating anyone who's not what they are , and this film wisely and miracurously pulls it off .  the subject of this film is one of them , but he is worse than one of the blind followers that make up most skinhead members since he is the leader of the pack .  he's the one who instigates them to take a firm grip onto their rage , and then in another brilliant stroke , justifies it with political propoganda that makes eerie sense when he speaks .  he's so utterly convincing as a public speaker and so firm in his convictions that it comes as a shock when he actually goes through the rehabilitation process .  his name is derek vinyard , and he's played by edward norton with so much fire and intensity that when he speaks he's almost as convincing and arresting a public speaker as , say , malcom x . when we first see him , he's clean shaven , with a jet black swastica emrboidered on his left breast , a devlish goatee , and he's attacking the black carjackers outside of his house dressed in nothing but his white boxers and carrying a handgun in his hand that never seems to run out of bullets , at least when he doesn't need them .  he so believes in his convictions that he's willing to put his beliefs to the test , even if he knows it will mean a stop in prison , if only for a couple years .   " american history x " is about derek , how he became a neo-nazi skinhead , how he rose to power , how he was rehabilitated in prison after murdering two black men in a fit of rage that was less to do with the stealing of his car and more to do with proving himself , and how he tried to save others , namely his younger brother , from making the same mistake .  we see him at all of these stages - as a smart teenager , a vicious hate monger , a man having an epiphany , and the man who tries to correct what he's done before - and in all of these , we get a portrait of a man from all sides .  or at least , that's the intention .  the film's framing device is his brother , danny ( edward furlong , perpetually looking about 13 ) , also now a skinhead , and how his principal , bob sweeney ( avery brooks , who i just found out was or is the captain on star trek's deep space 9 ) , is trying to " correct " him .  when the film opens , danny has just written a book report on " mein kampf , " landing him in trouble with sweeney , which causes him to make him write a paper on derek's life and how it has gotten him nowhere .  coincidentally , this day is the day derek is released from prison , and when we see him , he's cleaned-up , not as buff , and has a full head of hair .  he's just as intelligent , but still very rough along the edges , but he's wisened up .  he's no longer controlled by his anger at blacks and jews , and tries to persuade danny , who's becoming what derek was before , to give up his lifestyle .  but danny won't .  he goes to a large skinhead beer bash , meets with the skinhead leader ( stacy keach ) , and then discovers that derek is as opposed to neo-nazi-dom as he was for it a couple of years ago .  the film circles around this , then spins off into non-linear flashbacks , all done in black and white .  we mostly see derek at his prime as a skinhead , living in venice beach , organizing vicious and quasi-sadistic raids on local stores that no longer hire the white , middle-class teenagers since they can easily get cheaper illegal immigrants to do the same work , and mouthing off his theories on affirmative action and how illegal immigrants and blacks have destroyed the fundamentals this country was built on .  to them , the white man is the one who has gotten the fuzzy end of the lolipop , and he not only speaks elloquently , forcefully , and intelligently , but he backs everything up with political reasons , justifying their rage at least to them .  and frighteningly enough , much of what he says sounds true .   " american history x " is a collection of really great scenes and moments , rather than a cohesive , great film that flows effortlessly from one moment to the next .  in it , there are some of the best scenes i've seen all year .  one scene features a dinner between derek's family , and his mother's newest boyfriend ( played with reserve by eliott gould ) , a jewish liberal who quietly disagrees with derek's rightist views , launching the scene into a fit of rage and anger that builds unparalled emotions in the audience ( gould's reaction to derek's final summation is unnerrving ) .  another scene uses humor and traditional macho sex talk to build a friendship and a nice connection between derek and a black co-worker ( guy torry ) while folding laundry in prison .  and another soon-to-be-classic is actually divided in two : the murder of the two black men that winds derek in jail , which contains a final murder so nasty that it may be the most revoltingly shocking all year .  there's much more to appreciate , like the acting , which is uniformly good , with stand-outs coming from avery brooks , beverly d'angelo ( as the long-suffering mother ) , and gould ( who has one horrible line , but other than that , comes off with the best performance he's given in what seems like a really long time ) .  norton walks off with the film , though , coming off with such intensity that he reduces anyone not doing an adequate job to rubble .  in only the fifth movie of his career , norton has invented himself as one of the most reliable and intense actors of his generation , and maybe the best .  there's nothing like it when norton really gets rolling in this movie , spewing out lines with such authority that he commands all attention from the audience , coming off with power similar to that of a young maron brando .  that he allows the little emotions to seep through is amazing .  sadly enough , this isn't going to be the great portrait of racism that it perhaps hopes to be .  it's too unambitious and even a little contrived to really take off as either a powerful statement or an emotional masterpiece .  the ending , especially , is pencilled in from other movies , tossed in just so the emotional keyboard can be trounced upon .  some of the skinheads are reduced to mere cliches ( kevin smith regular ethan suplee fairs rather annoyingly as the " fat skinhead , " whose lines consist without fail of expressing his desire to eat more ) , and even the dramatic arc isn't as well travelled .  furlong's danny never seems to really be learning a lesson , since the flashbacks refuse to show his point of view , and when he decides to make a change by the end ( which was inevitable ) , it doesn't seem like it has actually arrived there .  even derek's descent into skinhead-dom doesn't seem justified .  though his fireman father ( william russ , the dad from " boy meets world , " and don't ask me how i know that ) is killed by a black junkie , and even before he spoke against affirmative action intelligently , there never seems to be any real back story why derek became so intense about his beliefs .  as such , one can see why the director , tony kaye , wanted to have his name removed .  sorta .   " american history x " is a very good movie , and i was very moved by it , but it could be a lot better , and the problem seems to be that the cut as it is is not up to what he claims to be his potential .  somewhere , he claims , there lies a tony kaye cut , and that was to be the true cut until it was viewed by norton , who then ordered another cut , and that is thus .  although he aimed for the directing credit to go to " alan smithee , " the resident name for any film that is to be disowned by its director , it wasn't allowed to him , under the grounds that once you disown a film , you can not badmouth it ( but really , that's the macguffin - no one really wanted a film this good to be given the alan smithee sign of disapproval ) .  kaye's right in that it's not up to par , even if he's not referring to normal par but rather his own personal par .  this will not be a " do the right thing " for the late 90s .  yet it still gets its point across intelligently , and backs it up with its story ( its message , that one cannot be so enwrapped in one's own beliefs or pain and suffering will occur , is literally said over the narration , unfortunately ) .  and even if it isn't perfect , at least when avery brooks turns to norton after he has been beaten and raped in prison , and asks him if anything he's done has made his life any better , it realy hits a nerve , not only in derek , but also in the audience . 
neg@ there's a scene early on in " jawbreaker " where a character utters the unintentionally prophetic line , " that is * so * not funny " .  how right she was .  this pathetic tale of three high-schoolers who accidentally kill their best friend in a birthday kidnapping prank gone horribly awry is never even remotely funny .  or fun .  or original .  not content with the too-obvious " heathers " heisting , the filmmakers proceed to lift freely from a staggering variety of sources , including " carrie " , " bride of frankenstein " , " blue velvet " , and even shaw's pygmalion , itself recently remade as " she's all that " .   " jawbreaker " is a pastiche , and not even an enjoyable one .  i find it extremely telling that the most engaging part of the film is the credit sequence , a jawbreaker factory montage inexplicably backed by veruca salt's " volcano girls " ; serving as a blueprint for the rest of the film , the song has absolutely nothing to do with the footage we're watching .  just close your eyes and pretend you're listening to an alt-rock station ; you won't be missing anything .  the blame for a mess this big has to be spread around among the principals .  rebecca gayheart , following roles in " scream 2 " and " urban legend " , should have known better than to take yet another role in yet another teen body count movie .  pam grier has totally wasted any credibility she might have gotten from her role in quentin tarantino's " jackie brown " .  and rose mcgowan should just quit acting .  she has no charisma , no presence , and no acting skills other than rolling her eyes and looking disaffected .  mcgowan manages to be upstaged by her real-life boyfriend , rocker marilyn manson , whose fifteen second role here is far more interesting than anything any of the " real " actors are doing .  manson , sans trademark makeup & contact lenses , and with an obviously fake moustache , looks eerily like nicholas cage ; who woulda thunk it ?  that crack about direction by committee wasn't merely a pithy sound-bite .  stylistically , thematically & narratively , " jawbreaker " is all over the map , varying wildly in tone & content from scene to scene .  though credited solely to writer/director darren stein , one gets the feeling that no two scenes here were actually guided by the same hands .  if stein was indeed responsible for the whole of this atrocity , someone needs to get the man some drugs , pronto .  prozac , lithium , kava , ritalin , something , anything .  he's quite obviously in desperate need of chemical help .   " jawbreaker " is a monumental waste of effort and resources , and quite likely one of the single worst films i've ever seen .  to call " jawbreaker " garbage would be to insult garbage .  bad flicks for the rest of the year are safe ; i've already got my pick for worst film of '99 .   " jawbreaker " runs approximately 90 minutes , though it feels longer than " titanic " , and is rated r for language , sexual situations and graphic violence .  not recommended for kids , teens , or anyone else . 
pos@ kadosh means sacred in hebrew .  amos gitai's fictional work , after spending most of his career doing documentaries , is a grim story about a failed hasidic marriage , even though the marriage is a loving one .  the marriage will symbolize the clash of cultures in modern israel between the native israeli's modern viewpoint toward religion and the political savvy hasidic's intolerable one , as both groups are vying for control of the secular government .  gitai ( devarim/yom yom ) is a labor party leftist , who believes that if the rigid hasidic ever got control of the government , it would sound the death knell of israel .  the emphasis of the film is on how the ultra-orthodox jews of that sect live by the letter of the torah in everything they do and how they subjugate the women to accept their vision of god's law from only the male's view .  that if they ever got control of the country , their intolerant attitude would subjugate the country the same way the women are .  the story takes place in jerusalem's jewish quarters called mea shearim , where we are taken down sinewy back streets with placards pasted on the walls , and into the crowded apartments and prayer rooms where the protagonists live out their idea of the proper jewish life , which is much different than the way most jews live in israel .  this is a controversial film , in that the women are unhappy and the male attitudes are to such an extreme patriarchal ones , that the film is bound to anger most viewers , no matter their belief .  it is a slow-moving , meticulous film , that grabs hold of you by the collar and never lets go .  the force of what is seen , though filmed in an objective manner , never taking a cheap shot at the hasidim , is nevertheless bound to leave questions about the nature of such a practice of strict observance .  the film is meant to be critical of such a rigid people , as it implies how they kill the spirit of everything they touch and with their extreme phobic attitudes , it makes it impossible for them to unite the country when they can't at present live in harmony with their own people , and it would be even more impossible to imagine them living with their arab neighbors in peace .  the film opens as meir rises at dawn and goes through his prayer ritual , where every prayer is made to the virtues of god .  he even thanks god that he didn't make him a woman .  his wife rivka accepts the fate she was born into and looks at him from the next bed where she sleeps separately according to hasidic custom .  she looks at him with glistening eyes , not questioning the laws or rebelling against her secondary role and how her religion keeps her from studying the talmud and having all the modern conveniences of life , and from seeing movies and tv .  meir is a talmudic scholar .  his father ( abu warda ) is a rabbi at the yeshiva .  he has been married for ten years and his wife has not been able to give him a child .  since the hasidim look upon a woman's role in life being only to conceive children , and cook and clean house for the man , while the man's role is to spend his time in prayer , therefore there is an insurmountable problem in this otherwise loving marriage .  she receives an anonymous letter that states " a woman without a child is no better than dead . "  meir's response , is that it is written like that in the talmud .  meir's father tells him that the marriage contract must be broken : " a man who dies without progeny rips a page from the torah . "  all the blame is placed on rivka , who is thought of as unpure as the reason for her being barren .  she will go through countless ritual baths to cleanse herself , as her rigid mother ( koenig ) dunks her in the holy water and says a ritual prayer for the 12 times she is dunked as an homage to the 12 tribes of israel .  their religion doesn't permit them to be examined extensively by a doctor .  rivka goes on the sly and finds out that it is her husband who is sterile , but she cannot tell him that because of their religion .  so when meir's father chooses a younger woman for his son , she is exiled to live alone in a cold apartment in the same jewish quarters .  rivka's spirited younger sister malka does not want to get married but wants to live a more liberated life .  she has a long time romantic relationship with a fellow hasidic yaakov .  but , because of the way they were both raised , she is still a virgin .  when yaakov joined the israeli army to fight in lebanon , something his sect is not allowed to do , he is thereby banished from the sect even though he is still a believer .  he now works as a singer in a nightclub .  malka's mother is worried that her daughter won't get married , so she arranges with the rabbi for her to marry yossef , someone whom she doesn't love .  yossef is a very stern follower of the order , he is also a political activist who drives around the city in a sound-truck with a bull-horn urging jews to stick together and fight their godless enemies .  the two sisters are close and languidly discuss their options , with rivka telling her sister to accept the marriage , it will make her happy ; but , while malka is reluctantly forced into accepting it , she has other plans to ruin this bogus marriage .  the harshest scene in the film is on malka's wedding night .  yossef prays to god for a child and then robotically gets malka to spread her legs , and without the least bit of affection , only a nervousness shown on his part for the function he supplies , as he goes inside her and rams her hard , thrusting away until the act is completed and then retiring without a word or gesture of love .  the sisters have choices , like everyone else in life does .  but the choices are obliterated by one's beliefs , circumstances , and inward nature , and how difficult it is to carry out those choices if it goes completely against the way one is brought up .  for the sisters , the choices are life or death ones .  gitai by closing in on the daily rituals , tight living quarters and close-knit community , has shown how difficult these choices are for those who have never seen another world and have been kept in the dark all their life .  the film ends with the forlorn malka walking atop of jerusalem and looking down upon it as an outsider would , and everything seems strange to her , all the things she once thought of as being set in stone are now harsh memories , as she has made her choice , and the price of that choice is very heavy indeed . 
neg@  " battlefield earth " is the best comedy of the year .  it has to be .  the other prospect is just too horrifying to consider .  bad movie syndrome struck me again , so after witnessing how much " battlefield earth " has been proclaimed a train wreck in both critical and popular circles , i felt the masochistic urge to see the disaster first-hand .  is it as bad as advertised ?  oh yes , very much so .  the plot is incomprehensible .  the acting is atrocious .  the special effects are mediocre .  the action is dull .  the implausibilities are legion .  the dialogue is cringe-inducing .  the whole package is funny when it wants to be serious and irritating when it wants to be funny .  i don't even want to continue reviewing this movie ; i'd like to purge the atrocity from my mind as soon as possible , but you probably want to read my thrashing in all its sarcastic glory , so here it is :  the premise is basically a rip-off of " planet of the apes , " only minus the apes and philosophical discussion , and plus a race of evil aliens from the planet psychlo .  the year is 3000 , the psychlos have conquered earth , and the human population has been enslaved .  only a handful of humans escaped to radiation-rich areas to escape the aliens ; they live out their lives in fear .  one man , johnny goodboy ( i know , i know ) tyler ( barry pepper ) , ventures to the outworld and is captured by the psychlos .  there he confronts the psychlo head of security : a big , ugly , klingon-looking creature called terl ( john travolta ) .  pressed into slavery , johnny vows to lead a revolution and take the planet back .  meanwhile , terl is faced with his own problems : he has recently learned that he's stuck living on earth ( which he hates ) for the rest of his career because he pissed off his boss by sleeping with the big man's daughter .  he decides to give johnny knowledge of the psychlo language and technology ( this is where the plot gets ridiculous .   .   . )  so the " man-animal " can lead a mining expedition into places the psychlos can't go .  terl then plans to keep the mined gold for himself .  of course , his plan doesn't work .  so many things wrong with this movie -- where to begin ?  how about with travolta , whose hollywood clout brought about this , the cinematic version of scientology guru l . ron hubbard's sci-fi novel ?  early previews for " battlefield earth , " with constant shots of a makeup-laden travolta cackling like lex luthor , had me ( and several audience members ) remarking , " what the hell is travolta thinking ? "  the movie did nothing to stem such remarks .  all that ridiculous cackling he did in the trailers is in full force here : terl cackles after nearly every line , and so does every other psychlo .  of course , this makes every scene hilariously overwrought , no more so than when the script clumsily stumbles into political commentary .  the psychlos are probably supposed to be some kind of satire of corporate america , but ceos generally don't laugh maniacally after denying pay raises to their employees .   ( " you were going to be promoted -- but now you're not !  fwahahahahahahahaha ! ! ! ! ! " )  it's no big surprise terl loses to the humans -- he's an idiot .  he breaks every kind of supervillain rule in the book .  he underestimates his enemies , assuming he'll win just because he's smarter .   ( he uses the word " leverage " like some sort of scientologist mantra . )  not content to go the james bond villain route of explaining his plans to the hero , he hooks him up to a machine that gives him knowledge of all the psychlos' language and technology .   ( why this machine is even around in the first place is beyond me . )  he then appears shocked that johnny points a gun at him .  no wonder this guy never got his promotion .  the plot inconsistencies are too numerous to mention .  why do the psychlos build an earth base in which both they and the human slaves must wear little breathing apparatuses to survive ?  how come the psychlos are wasting their time mining for gold when the doors of fort knox are wide open ?  how in the world did all those fighter jets survive sitting in a hangar for 1 , 000 years ?  and how do all these previously brain-dead cavemen learn to fly them so quickly ?  there's a whole lot more to scratch one's head about in " battlefield earth . "  bring a scorecard to track the plot holes .  director roger christian shoots " battlefield earth " in the most distracting way possible , tilting nearly every shot sideways for no discernible reason .  all the characters appear to be standing on the walls , and it's awfully difficult to watch a movie when you must tilt your head just to watch ordinary passages of dialogue .  the action sequences are atrociously edited , every one turned into an endless slow-motion parade that drains all potential excitement .  are these things really so hard to construct ?  my respect for supposed " lightweight " action directors has grown by leaps and bounds after witnessing in " battlefield earth " how badly an action sequence can be shot .  this movie is an absolute headache .  it's not just the shot selection and editing ; the movie , quite frankly , makes no sense .  for most of " battlefield earth's " running time , i just didn't know what was happening .  it didn't have anything to do with me finding the events stupid or illogical ( though they certainly are ) -- i really had no idea what the hell was going on .  when i pieced the plot together later , it didn't look any better .  here's how much of a disaster this is : " battlefield earth " is already the worst movie of the year , and it's going to take something really , really inept to top it .  the only thing we can take comfort in about the film is that no one will be suckered into joining the church of scientology because of it .  in fact , i'd think that hubbard's cult would want to distance themselves from this bomb as fast as possible .  that'll teach me to give into bad movie syndrome again . 
pos@ wild things is a suspenseful thriller starring matt dillon , denise richards , and neve campbell that deals with all the issues ; sex , love , murder , and betrayal .  the setting of the film is a town named blue bay .  it consists of many swamps and slums and , on the other hand , rich estates owned by the town's different benefactors .  the film opens just before the beginning of a senior seminar at the town's ritzy , expensive high school .  it is here that we meet all of the core characters .  there's guidance counselor sam lombardo , police officers ray duquette and gloria perez , dark mysterious senior suzie toller , and the popular head cheerleader kelly van ryan .  we first see that all of the senior girls are smitten with the handsome guidance counselor , but none more than kelly .  throughout the first portion of the film we see how far kelly will go to get sam until she accuses him of rape .  shortly after , suzie , too , confesses that sam raped her as well .  this pushes kelly's sex craving mother , sandra , to stop at nothing until sam is convicted .  during the trial , kelly gives a teary confession of how sam raped her .  however , it is later revealed by suzie that sam never raped either of the girls , it was all a vengeful plan against the guidance counselor .  after sam is cleared , kelly's mother pays sam a very substantial amount of cash in order for him not to sue her .  it is then revealed that sam , kelly , and suzie were all in on it together .  it is here that the film starts to reveal just who is being honest with each other and who has their own hidden agenda .  matt dillon stars as sam lombardo .  sam is the kind of guy that every woman would like to sink their claws into , and sam obviously knows it and uses it to his own advantage .  he isn't the obvious best of actors , but dillon does give a convincing performance .  however , his talents seem to be rendered useless near the end of the film , making it look as though his character has lost all of his ethics and principles , although he never had many to start out with in the first place .  neve campbell , who most people relate to scream and scream 2 , plays blue bay outcast suzie toller .  suzie obviously has some serious issues to deal with which are obvious from her first scene in the film .  campbell is very successful with this character , adding the slightest bit of charm to a seemingly repulsive character and making her fun to watch .  playing kelly van ryan is denise richards .  kelly is your typical , rich , sexy , head cheerleader who thinks she can have any man she choses , like her sexpot mother sandra .  one of the most interesting things about this film is how it compares and contrasts the relationship between kelly and her mother .  denise richards , still hot off the press from starship troopers , gives the most interesting performance in the entire film .  in the beginning , kelly looks to be a paper thin character , but richards adds a little more spice and ultimately makes the character not only sexy , but dominating as well .  kevin bacon gives one of his fair performances as ray duquette .  this character looks to be one of the most boring , predictable in the film .  however , it is a relationship revealed between him and suzie that adds depth to his story .  still , the film doesn't seem to gain much from bacon's performance , only his name .  in the supporting cast , theresa russell plays the much oversexed sandra van ryan , daphne rubin-vega gives an unappealing performance as cop gloria perez , and bill murray shines as sam's lawyer , ken bowden .  hats off to murray for adding the perfect touch of comedy to the film .  although wild things was displayed by the press as being an erotic thriller , the eroticism , which is portrayed with good taste , is kept to a minimum and focuses more on the plot and the relationships between the characters .  this is truly a very good film worth seeing if your looking for a movie with a thick plot filled with it's share of twists . 
neg@ alexandre dumas meets hong kong action with newcomer justin chambers reprising the oft-played character of dashing swordsman d'artagnon in director peter hyam's adventure " the musketeer . "  for some reason that i may figure out later , i don't know why the time , money and effort were put into the making of " the musketeer . "  it may be that someone had the clever idea of combining the dumas characters and story with the current enamor with the action work of hong kong imports like this film's xin-xin xiong ( " once upon a time in china " ) and yuen woo-ping from " crouching tiger , hidden dragon . "  the result is a mix of genres that don't mesh well .  elements of the ritz brothers-style comedy ( for those few who remember that comedic troupe from the 1939 " the three musketeers " ) , the man with no name from " a fistful of dollars " ( d'artagnan demands that the bad guys apologize to his horse in a direct ref to the clint eastwood spaghetti western ) and hong kong action choreography are all utilized in the original script by gene quintano .  the result is an action flick that bears little resemblance to its source material while it makes contemporary that material in an effort to grab the " matrix " crowd .  alexandre dumas may well be rolling in his grave if he knows what was done to his classic oeuvre and characters .  the real problem with the " the musketeer " lies in the casting of the two lead , romantically intertwined characters , d'artagnan and francesca ( mena suvari ) .  chambers has the boyishly handsome good looks for the character , a la chris o'donnell , but lacks any onscreen charisma .  suvari has the doe-eyed , pretty looks as the chambermaid who has the ear of the queen , but she , too , does not have the chemistry to command the screen .  if " the musketeer " makes them any money , they should invest in acting lessons .  stronger performers may have helped to raise the bar on this one .  the supporting cast is , on the surface , impressive .  catherine denueve plays the queen of france and lends her character an air of royalty , dignity and humor , especially when she plays off of d'artagnan's mentor , planchet ( jean-pierre castaldi , who reminds of andre the giant in " the princess bride ) .  stephen rea looks good in the part of the conniving usurper cardinal richelieu , but is given very little to help flesh out his character .  tim roth is the kind of bad guy you love to hate as the cardinal's chief henchman , febre .  he is so bad he makes simon legree look like a boy scout .  the rest of the players , particularly the three musketeers aramis ( nick moran , " lock , stock and two smoking barrels " ) , porthos ( steve spiers ) and athos ( jan gregor kremp ) , are background fodder whose role is to come to d'artagnan's aid when needed .  peter hyam's does double duty as director and cinematography and may be too stretched to do both well .  a stronger hand at the helm could have helped the mediocre performances of the leads and better utilized his veteran thesps .  photography is straightforward action fare that goes through all the appropriate action flick motions - d'artagnan takes on a tavern full of thugs and bests them single-handed ; he fights a gang of febre's henchmen aboard a speeding coach to protect the queen ( with the obligatory branches hanging over the road ) ; he goes one on one with his lifelong enemy , febre , who murdered d'artagnan's folks years before .  it is all routine stuff .  the renowned wire work developed by the hong kong action masters is used to artificial effect as the players leap , defying gravity , up walls and from horse to horse .  it works in a sci-fi film like " the matrix " or in a classical fantasy like " crouching tiger , hidden dragon " but just calls attention to itself in " the musketeer . "  at one point i could swear i saw the stunt wire being used .  it did not make me a believer and i am very disappointed .  with a run time of 106 minutes it should have been more like 80 and i give it a d . 
pos@ billy bob thornton , who had a sudden rise to fame with 1996's sling blade after spending years as a virtually unknown actor and writer , is becoming one of the most versatile - and most accomplished - american actors around at the moment .  as jacob , the simple but at times very bright loser brother of bill paxton's hank , thornton gives a performance which should leave an indelible mark on all but the most hardened viewers .  three men , hank ( paxton ) , jacob ( thornton ) and their friend lou ( brent briscoe ) stumble upon a plane wreck which , upon closer inspection , yields a rotting corpse and a bag full of money .  jacob and lou want to pocket the cash .  hank , the smarter - and perhaps more naive - of the three , insists on leaving the money for the authorities to find .  eventually , they agree to keep the cash safe until the plane is found , and then split the money three ways .  things start going wrong , though , with greed and violence weaving their ways through their plan .  disaster is sure to strike .  director sam raimi , of the evil dead and darkman fame , has made an excellent and thought-provoking film , worlds away from the comic horror films which made his name .  while there are a couple of moments which might remind one of his earlier work , raimi has made an intelligent and mature departure which will hopefully be a sign of even greater films to come .  scott b . smith's screenplay , based on his novel ( which i haven't read ) is a fine example of escalating tension .  while it does remind one of danny boyle's shallow grave without the abundance of black humour , it keeps the drama that should really be a part of such a story on morality , or the lack thereof , found in a film with this subject matter .  alar kivilo's cinematography reminds one of joel and ethan coen's fargo , with the bleak , snowy landscape almost becoming another character .  danny elfman also does well with his moody , finely-written score .  if there's a flaw in the film , it's that it goes on for just a little too long .  just when we think that they are about to wrap things up , raimi and smith decide to let the film go on a little further .  while this isn't really a bad thing , it did become a little frustrating at times ( this may have been due to the fact that i had consumed a large sprite beforehand ) .  the performances are excellent , with the usually annoying paxton in fine form and bridget fonda giving a scene-stealing turn as hank's scheming wife .  this is an excellent showcase for thornton's fine skills as an actor and a great change in direction for raimi , who could very well have a career ahead of him as an accomplished director of dramatic films .  fingers crossed , though , that this doesn't stop him from making another evil dead sequel . 
neg@ if anyone had been able in 1983 to forsee a late-night cable show hosted by gilbert gottfried showcasing some of the worst films of the 80's , they'd agree d . c . cab is the quintessential " usa up all nite " movie .  it's one of those childish r-rated movies that kids would love but can't see until it's edited for tv .  it's also one of those pointless , almost plotless movies with hardly any laughs .  and , strike three , it pairs mr . t with gary busey .  i heard gilbert say d . c . cab had " an all-star cast , " but i'm still hoping there was some degree of facetiousness in that statement .  when third-billing goes to a two-minute appearance by famed flashdancer irene cara " as herself , " you can't say a damn thing about all-star casts .  likewise for token appearances by marsha " roz " warfield , paul rodriguez and " politically incorrect " host bill maher , before he was somebody .  appearing in d . c . cab pretty much had the opposite effect on everyone else , especially irene " i'm gonna live forever " cara .  d . c . cab is an ensemble comedy from joel schumacher ( who would go on to direct batman forever ) about a bunch of misfits who drive cabs .  you get the feeling if the police academy cadets had made a different career choice , this would be the result , except here you have such interesting characters as the " token white guy " ( busey ) who wants to get in tight with the blacks now before they take over the world , the token jive talker named tyrone ( charlie barnett ) who wears his hair in rollers and uses the word " honkey " as much as possible , the tough guy with the mohawk and gold chains ( mr . t -- a real stretch for him ) , the aspiring musician waiting for his big break ( maher ) , the mexican gigolo ( rodriguez ) , the woman who actually wants to drive cabs for a living ( warfield ) and the guy who wants to own a cab company for a living ( adam baldwin ) .  we've all seen dozens of bad comedies from the 80's .  some are fun to watch and some are actually funny .  this one is more or less neither .  you'd think plenty of comedic sparks would fly from the assemblage of talent ( whatever ) , but d . c . cab more or less falls flat on a continual basis , culminating in the usual contrived hollywood finale as baldwin is kidnapped and the other cabbies have to go to rescue him .  it's a shame no one was able to rescue this movie from the depths of stale jokes and unoriginality .  d . c . cab has rightly earned its position on " usa up all nite . " 
pos@ plot : a young man who loves heavy metal music and especially the band steel dragon , to whom he's devoted a tribute band in which he sings , gets launched into stardom when the real group get rid of their lead singer and call on him to take his place .  critique : i'm a sucker for movies like this .  a young man with a humble background and lofty dreams , works hard , devotes the time , the energy and the patience , and ultimately hits it big-time .  in the case of this film , our boy loves a certain heavy metal band and as luck would have it ( yup , luck always finds its way into these types of equations , although generally tied very closely to hard work ) , they need a new singer .  his entry and adaptation to the whole " rock 'n roll " lifestyle fills the rest of the film and is really fun to watch .  although i will preface this by saying that one thing that would definitely enhance your appreciation for this film is your own love ( or past love ) of heavy metal music and the whole scene around it .  metal was one of my first loves as a teen and even though the genre of music isn't that prominent anymore , i still check out my motley crue , twisted sister and anthrax cds every now and again .  that's not to say that you won't like this film if you don't like the music , but the music and live performances from the band , play a big part in the movie , and i for one , had a blast watching and listening to it all .  but the even greater draw in this film is the standout performance given here by mark wahlberg .  wow , hand this fella some major props , as he totally becomes this heavy metal geek/god ( incidentally , metal god was the film's original title , and a much better one if you ask me ) .  he is this movie and i was quite taken by his character pretty much the whole way through .  he came off like a regular guy with extremely passionate goals and work ethic , who was willing to do anything in order to fulfill his dreams .  aniston was also surprisingly good as the girlfriend ( and the romance angle between them was sweet ) , but she didn't pull me in hard enough during their emotional scenes .  i was also impressed by some of the " real " musicians who played in the film ( zakk wylde from ozzy osbourne , jeff pilson from dokken , stephan jenkins from third eye blind , blas elias from slaughter ) , but actor dominic west as kirk cuddy made the biggest impression among the band members .  it's to note that this film was based on a real-life tale of a young man who used to sing in a judas priest cover band and then went on to become their actual singer ( their original singer also admitted to being gay , as in this film ) .  just for the record , i'm certainly not recommending this film for its originality or surprise elements , since most of this stuff has already been covered in some way or another in other movies , but because it's a fun , uplifting , well-paced movie with a solid central showing by wahlberg and energetic live performances .  oh yeah , and for those who dig the " heavier " side of music , the soundtrack also rocks ! !  you see . . . dreams  can come true . . .  where's joblo coming from ?  almost famous ( 8/10 ) - blow ( 8/10 ) - boogie nights ( 9/10 ) - detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) - girlfight ( 6/10 ) - goodfellas ( 10/10 ) 
neg@ it seemed like the perfect concept .  what better for the farrelly brothers , famous for writing and directing comedies with offensive subject matter , than to make a movie about a guy with a split personality ?  it's exactly the sort of thing the brothers relish : poking fun at something serious ( in this case mental illness ) , throwing all care to the wind to get a laugh .  jim carrey's signed on too ?  even better .  the national alliance for the mentally ill even helped out by levying complaints against the brothers' new film before its opening , claiming it was misrepresenting the condition of split personality , labeling it incorrectly as " schizophrenia , " and so forth .  such a protest seemed like just the sort of thing that would , of course , only add more fuel to the farrelly brothers' fire , proving that some people just couldn't take a joke , and that the farrellys would be helping the more enlightened viewers to yet another dose of their brilliantly subversive comedy .  yes , it all seemed perfect , but one thing went wrong : their movie isn't funny .  it's not for lack of trying .  the farrellys utilize in " me , myself & irene " their most high-concept premise ever : carrey plays charlie baileygaites , a man who after being dumped by his wife for a midget limo driver , decides to bury all his aggressive feelings deep down inside and never release them .  this , of course , means all his neighbors exploit his entirely too-forgiving nature , making his job as a rhode island state trooper increasingly difficult .  soon enough , charlie's repressed aggression manifests itself into a second , independent personality named hank , a deep-voiced , boorish ogre unafraid of taking the assertive actions his predecessor had been unable to muster .  this guy isn't above crashing a car through the wall of the barber shop in which he's been insulted , or holding a little girl's head underwater because she refused to stop jump-roping in the street .  then things start getting lost in the most complicated plot the farrellys have ever attempted , and the film runs off its tracks .  some have suggested that this isn't a problem , because the farrelly brothers' brand of humor doesn't require plot to work .  they're wrong , of course : plot was greatly instrumental in building up the kind of rollicking comic energy that infused the farrellys' last effort , 1996's " there's something about mary . "   ( 1999's " outside providence " was technically an earlier project . )  the brothers' earlier film wasn't funny merely because it contained outrageous gags ( despite what some newsmagazine articles would have you believe ) , but rather because its most outrageous gags were entirely unexpected .  in " mary , " the farrellys managed several times to pull off a neat sleight-of-hand trick : they'd have you thinking the story was going one way , then reveal its real direction in delightfully surprising fashion .   " me , myself & irene , " by contrast , seems to have been made by folks who looked at " mary " and saw only the surface grossness , missing all of the subtle machinations that really made it work .  having been produced by the same guys who made " mary , " " irene " seems like an even bigger disappointment .  the brothers pile on the offensive humor , taking shots at race , midgets , albinos , mental illness , and all manner of bathroom jokes .  but they haven't come up with a way to make any of it fresh most of " me , myself & irene " comes off as rote , by-the-numbers , adolescent comedy .  the plot , with carrey forced to drive alleged fugitive irene p . waters ( renee zellweger ) , who's in more trouble than anyone knows , back to new york , has an ending that's entirely predictable from the get-go .   ( think charlie and irene will fall in love ?  yeah , me too . )  the farrellys then introduce scores of different characters , and none of them ever manage to do anything you haven't already expected them to do , no matter how outrageous their actions might be .  compared to the curveballs the farrellys are used to throwing , this stuff is almost entirely soft-tossed , presenting an obvious problem : when gross-out humor loses its shock value , it's no longer funny , merely gross .  the jokes that do work are milked over and over until their effectiveness runs dry .  take , for example , the subplot involving charlie's three black sons ( anthony anderson , mongo brownlee , jerod mixon ) .  the incongruity of it all is funny for a while , with three burly black men discussing higher math in ghetto language and white-bread carrey mouthing said language with an entirely too-pleasant smile on his face .  but by the end of the film , they're still doing the same schitck it hasn't been elevated to another , funnier level , and it hasn't been dropped either .  that's too bad , because it ceases to be amusing about halfway through .   " me , myself & irene " reeks of wasted opportunities .  there ought to be more focus on how other people react to charlie's new personality , and on how charlie deals with the consequences of hank's actions .  this doesn't really happen nearly every supporting character learns about charlie's condition early on , so they don't have any opportunity to be surprised by it .  the film throws what looks like a patented farrelly curve in a scene towards the midway point ( involving an albino companion charlie and irene pick up called , appropriately , " whitey " ) , but the script doesn't go anywhere with it , instead leaving the thread twisting in the wind before awkwardly tying it up during the climax .  jim carrey is a gifted comedian , both physically and vocally , but he's left with nothing much to do here except contort himself in a manner similar to steve martin in " all of me . "  it's a great showcase of flexibility and split-second role-shifting , but none of it is terribly funny .  carrey doesn't pull any stunts we don't expect him to pull , and the farrellys' script doesn't give him anything else to pull : the situations in which he must perform the role-shifting aren't set up in any meaningful way .  perhaps carrey can take solace in the fact that his supporting actors fare no better .  zellweger's irene is not a strong female lead mary in " mary " may have been part adolescent fantasy , but she was also intelligent and strong-willed .  irene is nothing in particular , as the film never makes clear whether she's ditzy , clever , or neither .  as such , she gives us nothing to latch onto as the only " sane " person in the film .  chris cooper is stuck playing exactly one note as a corrupt fbi agent , and his character is entirely too straight-laced for a movie like this .  he , like the others , does absolutely nothing unexpected .  after viewing the shapeless mess that " me , myself & irene " eventually dissolved into , i was stuck wondering whether or not the farrellys had outsmarted themselves .  maybe their kind of comedy can only work for so long until audiences get wise to it and stop being shocked .  but i don't believe it -- good filmmakers find ways of surprising their audiences even after people have grown attuned to their style .  if the farrellys are indeed good , smart filmmakers ( and i still think they are ) , they'll rebound just fine .  even after that happens , though , i'll still consider " me , myself & irene " to be a high-caliber misfire . 
pos@ armageddon , in itself , symbolizes everything that is wrong in modern filmmaking .  stories have been replaced with special effects ; character development gets overshadowed by bad dialogue ; plotting consists of a bunch of shit getting blown up .  armageddon is as stupid , as loud and as shallow as any movie you'll see come out this summer , or maybe even any other summer .  but i loved every freaking minute of it .  believe me , i'm just as shocked as you are .  hell , i don't even know why i went to see it in the first place .  the previews were so annoying that i predicted this was going to be the worst film of the year , or at least in the running .  i'm sorry , but " somebody dial 911 ! ! ! "  isn't quite the tagging that's going to sell a movie .  it isn't too wise either to market the film using the movie's stupidest lines ( " beam me up scotty " - yeah , that sure is great writing . . . ) .  i mean , let's face it ; armageddon's previews rival the truman show's as being some of the worst of the year .  neither of them even come close to doing their respective films justice .  of course , you all know the story .  when the earth is threatened with total annihilation via an asteroid the size of texas , nasa calls in the us's top oil drillers ( ! ) to go into space ( ! ) and implant a nuclear device eight-hundred and someodd feet into the asteroid ( ! ) .  in the coarse of all this mayhem , we are introduced to some interesting - and not so interesting - characters .  belonging to the former group is rockhound ( steve buscemi ) , a horny little womanizing genius who's always full of wisecracks , even when flying into space at a huge amount of g's .  also , there's the always cool-as-hell billy bob thornton as dan truman , the bigwig at nasa who recruits all the drillers .  he kind of reminded me of ed harris in apollo 13 , only without the intensity and great lines to deliver .  then on the flip side of the coin is the tired , contrived character of harry stamper ( bruce willis , who does the whole movie employing with annoying accent i can't quite place ) , the leader of the pack as well as liv tyler and ben affleck as the token lovers you must have in any summer movie .  basically , that's about it .  as i said , this is hardly a film about plot .  it's another summer blockbuster with plot points that are beyond unbelievable and dialogue and characters that are mostly completely wooden .  case in point : nasa doesn't know that there is even an asteroid on it's way until eighteen days before impact - huh ?  another example : at one point in the movie , two children are playing with toy space shuttles in front of a poster of kennedy .  how pretentious is that ? ? ? ! ! !  want another one ?  okay ; before the oil drillers blast off into space , one of them starts singing " leaving on a jet plane " , and soon , all the rest join in .  did michael bay attend the school of sappy filmmaking before he made this picture ?  but naturally , all this sappiness , melodrama and special effects accumulate to one bitchin' time at the movies .  and don't get me wrong - despite all of the things i found wrong with armageddon , i still very much enjoyed it .  so even if you don't win one of mcdonald's free tickets , it's still definitely worth checking out . 
neg@ here is a movie that sadly follows the hong kong-recipe of moviemaking and storytelling to the letter .  these kinds of movies are marked by an eye-opening sequence that introduces us to the main characters ; a life-and-death plot in which these characters become involved ; the inclusion of a host of inconsequential characters ; ridiculous subplots , and sunglass-wearing henchmen .  that is not to say that i don't like hong kong influenced movies ; however , it is quite obvious that these moviemakers haven't a clue that the american filmgoer needs more than hip-hop-talking thugs and stupid sight gags .  observe the opening sequence .  a band of hitmen are about to storm an apartment , led by melvin ( mark wahlberg ) and cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) .  they are waiting for their partner to cut off the power so that they can storm the apartment with the help of infrared goggles .  however , their partner is unsure of which cable to cut .  he is undecided .  this happens for about 10 seconds .  the audience finds some humor in his foolishness .  the lights suddenly go out .  cisco is surprised and says : " whoa . . . let's  go ! "  and they storm the apartment in a very nicely executed sequence .  the big hit of the title refers to a kidnapping that happens a quarter of the way through the film .  needing cash , cisco devises a plan to kidnap the daughter ( china chow ) of wealthy japanese industrialist jiro nishi .  however , the daughter is also the god-daughter of paris ( avery brooks ) , who is cisco's and melvin's boss .  infuriated and insufferable , paris commands cisco to uncover the mastermind of the kidnapping .  during his 'investigation' , cisco singles out melvin as the ringleader , and paris orders his capture and execution .  melvin must now find a way to stay alive .  by the way , do you know how the investigation takes place ?  cisco's partner makes the ransom phone call believing that his call will not be traced because of a trace buster that prevents tracing .  but , mr . nishi has a trace buster buster .  to counter that , cisco's partner has a trace buster buster buster .  but nishi has a trace buster buster buster buster .  and so on . . .  there is no doubt that this is an interesting world in which they live .  and there are lots of issues that we'd like to know more about .  how does melvin justify his profession to his fiancee ?  what goes on among this clique ?  why is cisco at odds with melvin ?  there is actually a lot of potential material that could have been explored , but it seems that no effort is made to go in that direction , and instead we are given a not-so-engrossing plot filled with one-liners , silly sight gags , extraneous sub-plots and tomfoolery .  and , i haven't even mentioned his financee's visiting parents who want them to separate , nor melvin's mistress , nor the pimple-faced video clerk demanding the return of an overdue video and on and on and on .  if the big hit signals the future of hong kong style movies that are made for american audiences , then shoot me now . 
pos@ i've noticed something lately that i've never thought of before .  pseudo- substance - hollywood faking deep meanings in their films .  have you ever seen a movie that you really enjoyed , then when you look back , you realize there was something missing ?  more and more , filmmakers seem to be putting out well rehearsed , melodramatic films that evoke strong connotations of being a great film , but if you step aside and reflect on your movie going experience , you may just discover nothing more than elegantly presented fluff .  i'm not trying to say city of angels is that bad .  it had a lot going for it , but somewhere along the way , it faltered .  somehow , underneath the seemingly poetic beauty of it all , there was a gigantic hole somebody covered with iridescent performances and glossy cinematography .  the predictable ending that shattered our hopes ( even though we saw it coming ) only added to the disappointment .  but for over an hour , city of angels is well worth the time .  nicolas cage is seth , a guardian angel who , like hundreds ( likely thousands or even millions ) of other angels , spends eternity watching over the citizens of mortality ; humans never aware of how much celestial intervention occurs in their life .  meg ryan , in her most subdued performance yet , plays maggie , a doctor who begins to ponder exactly who it is we're fighting against when we fight to keep someone alive .  after losing a patient on the surgery table , these questions envelope maggie , and seth , the angel who was there to oversee the patient's transition into the afterlife , is immediately captivated by the doctor .  he begins following and observing maggie , falling more and more in love with her everyday .  angels , who we quickly learn are not and never were humans , can not experience human sensations such as taste and touch , but they do have the ability to make themselves seen to anyone they desire .  seth's adoration is too much to resist , and eventually he does appear to maggie , quite regularly , although such a thing seems taboo among the angelic community .  the angels are interestingly presented , all of them dressed in black and more reminiscent of hitmen than traditional glowing white entities , but it's a nice touch that never seems like a mere attempt at uniqueness .  cage is a wonderfully versatile actor ( think face/off , raising arizona , and it could happen to you - what a combo ! ) who slips into the role of a heavenly agent quite nicely but threatens sappiness more than once .  it's nice to see ryan pick up roles like this and the one in courage under fire .  the two aren't very comparable to each other , but they both deviate from her usual " intelligently ditzy " romantic comedy roles , and it's an impressive side of ryan movie goers rarely have the chance to enjoy .  but even though the two leads do an impressive job , it is dennis franz who grabs us with his interpretation of a hospital patient who knows more than meets the eye .  it's a shame that with so much going for it , city of angels falters so much in its final stages , leaving us with the realization that an emotionally incredible movie was out there , they just didn't know quite how to get to it .  they struggle for an impacting conclusion and wind up with painful thud rather than an exhilarating high .  filmmakers should know your final impression will be the one you linger on , remember , and convey to others thru word of mouth , so after telling us for 60+ minutes that this film is a glorious masterpiece , they sure leave us with a disheartening taste of mediocrity in our mouths .  based on the german film wings of desire ( that being the english title , of course ) , city of angels is ninety percent success , enough to make most people forgive its shortcomings , even the devastatingly disappointing ending .  most movie goers , the non-cynics anyway , will be too wrapped up in the surreal atmosphere to give criticism to that which needs to be criticized .  nonetheless , city of angels is beautifully captivating , which is probably enough to satisfy those poetic viewers who will appreciate a delve into rich emotional territories . 
neg@ movie concepts are often pitched to producers with mathematical formulas involving successful films of the past .  so , undoubtedly one day someone said , " 'evolution ? '  it's 'ghostbusters' plus 'men in black' plus 'tremors . ' "  and so it is .  sum total none .  the alienbusting begins when a meteor lands in glen canyon , arizona .  community college science profs ira kane ( david duchovny ) and harry block ( orlando jones ) take some samples from the meteor and discover that one-celled organisms from inside it are evolving rapidly , doing in hours what took millions of years for life on earth .  just about the time i was wondering , " hey , doesn't the government usually come in and take over the whole area in these movies , " the government came in and took over the whole area .  the leader of the pack , gen . woodman ( ted levine ) , turns out to be an old nemesis of ira's , and ira and harry are blocked from doing further research .  meanwhile , the organisms continue to grow until they are large enough to start attacking people .  by this time , ira and harry have gained a friend in dr . allison reed ( julianne moore ) of the center for disease control .  a country club poolboy , wayne green ( seann william scott ) , has also attached himself to the merry band .  but can they find the means to stop the aliens in time ?  director ivan reitman seems to be revisiting his biggest hit , 1984's " ghostbusters , " but " evolution " falls miserably short .  one reason is readily apparent .   " ghostbusters " had three really funny guys as its scientists ( bill murray , dan aykroyd , and harold ramis ) , but " evolution " has one really funny guy ( orlando jones ) who can adlib and milk the comic potential of lines that prove useless in anyone else's hands .  for good measure , " ghostbusters " had the comic talents of rick moranis ; " evolution " offers seann william scott , who was much funnier in " american pie " and " road trip " than he is here .  scott has one amusing scene where he sings " you are so beautiful to me " to a dragon-like alien to draw it into a trap .  other than that , scott seems unable to make much of the thin material the writers gave him .  an actor in search of a forte , david duchovny looked for his gritty action hero side in " playing god " and his romantic side in " return to me . "  now he wants to find his wacky comedic talent ; what we all find is that he doesn't have any .  look for him to be back on tv in five years or so .  another sad case is julianne moore , who needs to be more selective about the offers she accepts .  she's a talented actress with an impressive list of credits and award nominations , so why is she trying to do slapstick comedy ?  her character has a tendency to trip over and bump into things , but the trait comes off as a pathetic plea for laughs .  the sole saving grace of the film is jones .  he's at the center of the movie's funniest scene -- where an alien bug invades harry's body and has to be pulled out through his ass .  jones is the only cast member who can take the comedic ball and run with it , but he can't carry the whole movie by himself .  he found himself in a similar situation in " the replacements , " where he was also the only comic talent in an ensemble cast .  jones will eventually find the project that will make him a major comedy star , but this isn't it . 
pos@ james jones , one of the major novelists from the middle of the twentieth century , has written a number of fictional works about the effects of war on the individual .  a veteran of world war ii , and a witness to the pearl harbor bombings , his novels are not only grounded in realism but poetic in nature .  they are reminiscent of stephen crane in their blunt eloquence , a trait which lends itself to razor-sharp focus .  but perhaps none matches the scope of his autobiographical novel , the thin red line ; now a cinematic masterpiece from director terrence malick .  the book's principal cast , some thirty characters , has been trimmed down for this rendition , but it still retains its most endearing value .  each of the roles has an everyman quality , emphasizing jones' examination of world war ii on the american soldier .  there's a definitive chain of command present , and this also plays on the motivations of the cast .  but most importantly , and perhaps intrinsic to the novel but not to the movie , a dynamic and effective voice-over is used .  malick has several characters relating their thoughts , giving the viewer a greater perspective of the issues at stake .  the issues at stake are many and one .  told from a limited third-person perspective ( as opposed to a top-down , omniscient view ) , the movie entails the struggle of an american infantry company ( " c-for-charlie " ) to take a hill during the conflict at guadalcanal .  the south pacific island is seen by the top brass as the key position for american armed forces to hold if they want to win the war .  and want to win the war they do .  in an excellent performance , nick nolte plays c-for-charlie's commanding officer , lt . col . gordon tall .  he's an aging soldier who embodies the win-at-all-costs mentality , if only to impress his superior ( john travolta , in a questionable cameo ) .  this philosophy is opposite that of captain bugger staros ( elias koteas ) , who dearly values the life of each and every one of the men under his command .  at the front are the privates and corporals ( adrien brody , james caviezel , ben chaplin , et al ) , lead by 1st sgt .  welsh ( sean penn ) , who must actually execute the suicide orders handed down to them .  the thin red line is filled with intense , visual poetry , but it's nearly three hours long .  although the interest level is high throughout the first two hours , the climax comes forty-five minutes before the end of the movie ; it goes without saying that the movie drags on the back end .  the thin red line will doubtless be compared to 1998's other masterpiece of war , saving private ryan a countless number of times .  but to do so is to belittle both films , for although similarities abound , so do differences .  director malick has a story to tell , and for those interested in listening , this can be a very outstanding movie . 
neg@ america's favorite homicidal plaything takes a wicked wife in " bride of chucky , " and their unholy matrimony is something old , nothing new .  the burning question on the minds of most moviegoers , however , has nothing to do with nuptial specifics or even how the movie stacks up , but rather whether or not the duo gets down and dirty on their blood-soaked honeymoon .  the answer is a sick-and-twisted yes - and viewers are treated to a shadowy glimpse of some hot-enough-to-melt-rubber ( or at least singe it ) lovin' .  guess they're anatomically correct .  chucky ( again voiced by brad dourif ) , of course , is the star of the " child's play " series , a my buddy-type doll possessed by the spirit of a slain serial killer .  in " bride , " the plot ( heh ) picks up with his girlfriend tiffany ( jennifer tilly ) resurrecting chucky's remains ( he was blown up at the end of " child's play 3 " ) with the help of a black arts manual called " voodoo for dummies . "  silly mortal .  before long , she's also been reduced to shin-high figurine status , and the plastic incarnations of these one-time lunatic lovebirds hit the road to scope out some potential new human bodies .  the rest of this rocky horror puppet show plays out as tiff and the chuckster stalk a young couple ( nick stabile and katherine heigl ) with conjugal plans of their own , leading them towards a new jersey grave where a magical , soul-transferring amulet allegedly lies in wait .  along the way , our murderous barbie and ken go through post-marriage motions similar to any given pair of newlyweds - bicker , argue , kiss and make up .  but when they squabble over who's going to do the dishes , watch out .  hey , even faux people have got to work through their problems .  director ronny yu keeps the mayhem flashy and stages an inventive scene or two , but not even visual flair can make up for the fact that these creepy kewpies are neither scary nor menacing .  when one of them charges , it's nothing a good forward punt couldn't take care of .  and when a climactic chase scene is needed , one of the dim-bulb protagonists must _pick_chucky_up_ so the demonic toy can force his hostage to run at gunpoint .  throw in some silly casualties and a ridiculous ending ( will " son of chucky " be next ? ) and this is a bizarrely bad 89-minutes at the movies .  as is the thing to do in post- " scream " slasher cinema , don mancini's screenplay slathers on the in-jokes and genre-parody .  but little of the humor succeeds , proving self-reference can be completely worthless when it lacks bite .  to be fair , though , most of " bride of chucky " is on auto-pilot , so it's not quite right to single out one misfired aspect of the film .  similarly shaky , the acting ranges from screeching camp to boring bland , the effects aren't that special and the story is one big groaner .  here's hoping chucky and his entire clan - past , present and future - rest in peace . 
pos@ this film is based on the campy tv show from the 1960's under the same appellation .  mind you , most people ( including yours truly ) who will see this movie will not have seen any episodes from the original series .  the movie is really a stand alone in that regard .  the family robinson . . . lost in space .  plot : set in the year 2058 , the family robinson is chosen to sail out into space in search of other planets that might contain the natural resources earth needs in order to survive its future .  a colonization process , if you will .  they are joined by able pilot west ( leblanc ) , and evil uninvited stowaway ( oldman ) , who does not want to see the trip conclude on a successful tip .  eventually , their trek goes awry , and all are " lost in space " .   " how do get back to earth ? "  is the question that infests the rest of this sci-fi epic .  critique : this film reminded me a lot of the fifth element ( 6 . 5/10 ) from the summer of 1997 .  it's a film with a lot of flash , but very little actual substance .  admittedly , there isn't an annoying character like chris tucker from the other film , but this film does run a little too long , and did lose me in regards to its complex time-travel / multi-dimensional story line .  having said that , the special effects in this movie were amazing , and the overall look and feel were also way above average .  you really felt like you were in the future , and riding through space with these poor souls .  unfortunately for this chosen family , their 10-year old son is the smartest one in the group , and the father is too wrapped up in his work to notice the rest of his family ( ever heard that one before ?  yawn ! ) .  the acting is ok , and i was especially surprised at the solid performance by tv friend's matt leblanc who shows us all that he's definitely more than just a pretty face .  on the down side , the family riff-raff that cuts through most of the picture is lame and time-consuming ( even though we gotta give them credit for " trying " to develop characters in a sci-fi pic ) , the story line is hard to follow , the evil character in the movie actually tells people that he's " evil " , and the movie goes on for about 20 minutes too long .  on the slick side , many of the special effects are really cool ( the sequence in which the family is " paralyzed " during the hyper-drive is awesome , and the animated monkey that joins the family halfway through the flic is mucho cool ) , the credit presentation at the end of the film is slamming , and the adventures that they fall into are somewhat thrilling ( i will also admit that " somehow " they got me to semi-tear up near the conclusion of this picture . . . . very  odd . . . . . ) .  overall , if you're a big sci-fi fan , check this movie out for the special effects and challenging narrative , and if you're not , i would still suggest seeing this movie , but then you could probably wait until it comes out on video so that you forward past some of the boring parts .  little known facts : this film will always be remembered as the movie that knocked titanic ( 7/10 ) out of the top spot at the box-office after 15 straight weeks at number one .  garry oldman is british , and was once married to uma thurman for about six months .  mimi rogers was tom cruise's first wife . 
neg@ and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time .  yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it .  oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . .  plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or  something along those lines .  critique : a complete and utter mess .  disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and  that's just the first thirty minutes !  this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself .  it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) .  the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it  just goes from one inexplicable situation to another .  one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s .  why ?  who knows .  what are they talking about ?  no idea .  flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! !  hullo . . . ? ! ?  confused yet ?  i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story .  random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ?  or were they in the present at that time ?  who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who  seriously cares !  this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it .  please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it !  even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one .  the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere .  and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ?  nope .  and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes ,  the man is not aging gracefully , is he ?  oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years .  the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near .  overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's  a living !  he's also very funny , not purposely though .  all in all , the movie stinks .  nuff said . 
pos@ american pie acknowledges a cold , hard fact that most movies don't : it is very difficult to get laid .  its four virgin heroes are jim ( biggs ) , a chronic masturbator , kev ( nicholas ) , who desperately wants to deflower his girlfriend ( reid ) , oz ( klein ) , a lacrosse player whose approach requires some fine tuning , and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) , a germphobe ( his crass nickname is hilarious , but i won't spoil it here ) who pays a classmate to spread rumours about the size of his member .  jim , kev , oz and finch attend a high school in suburban michigan full of so many impossibly beautiful women it's no wonder they're horny all the time .  after a party at their studly friend stifler's ( seann william scott , in the film's sharpest performance ) house leaves them sexually unsatisfied , the quartet make a pact : to " lose it " by graduation-specifically , prom night , which is only a few weeks away .  american pie is in the tradition of bachelor party or revenge of the nerds .  almost every conversation these characters have revolves around makin' whoopee .  all women are there to be ogled .   ( alyson hannigan's perky music student is the only memorable female of the bunch . )  situations abound that defy logic only to arouse and/or amuse its core audience , adolescent boys .   ( to arouse : nadia's ( shannon elizabeth ) internet striptease-an unexpectedly raucous ( and guiltily pleasurable ) sequence .  to amuse : jim's lusty encounter with a hot apple pie . )  what differentiates american pie from those dirty eighties comedies , aside from a very nineties obsession with bodily fluids * , is a cast that's light years more appealing than that of , say , just one of the guys .  two more standouts : klein and " sctv " 's eugene levy .  klein plays a kind-hearted athlete for the second time in a row , after alexander payne's underappreciated election .  i hope to see more of this warm actor with the disarmingly honest face very soon .  levy's is the most crowd-pleasing performance , and indeed , it's nice to see him back on the big screen in a role that makes wonderful use of that expressive brow .  american pie also wants to emulate the teen flicks your parents _would_ let you watch growing up .  it skillfully employs a broad mix of pop tunes , much like john hughes' movies did , and even pays homage to the breakfast club a couple of times , most evidently when the prom band covers simple minds' " don't you ( forget about me ) . "  the picture ultimately has a healthy , if obligatory , attitude towards safe sex-even at their most libidinous , american pie's protagonists first whip out a condom .  the filmmakers prove that socially responsible raunch is possible .  for its familiarity and for its charming leads , i recommend american pie , but the buzz on this film had me expecting something . . . fresher .  as far as the new teen cinema goes , it's at the top of the heap .   * don't say i didn't warn you about the party scene . 
neg@ ok , i admit it--i find camp amusement with the spice girls .  yes , the same spice girls of the gimmicky individual " identities , " they of the annoyingly infectious bubblegum pop hooks and cheesy unifying mantra of " girl power . "  but not even their guilty pleasure appeal isn't enough to carry their big screen debut , a junky mess which would be more aptly named shite world than spice world .  the film begins amusingly enough , with a cheeky 007-esque title sequence in which the british quintet-- " scary " ( melanie brown ) , " baby " ( emma bunton ) , " sporty " ( melanie chisolm ) , " ginger " ( geri halliwell ) , and " posh " ( victoria adams ) --are introduced one by one ( to , much to my surprise , excited and only slightly mocking cheers from the press audience ) as they croon the silky ballad " too much " ( a tune that would sound right at home in an actual james bond film ) .  a few minutes and an elton john cameo later comes an introductory tour of the numerous plotlines that run through the film : ( 1 ) the spicy ones go on a european publicity tour leading up to their first live concert at london's royal albert hall ; ( 2 ) a film producer ( george wendt ) and a screenwriter ( mark mckinney ) pitch various film ideas to the girls' manager , clifford ( richard e . grant ) ; ( 3 ) a documentary film crew follows the girls ; ( 4 ) a pregnant " mate " ( naoki mori ) of the group rapidly approaches her due date ; and ( 5 ) a tabloid publisher ( barry humphries ) attempts to destroy the group with the help of a sneaky shutterbug ( richard o'brien ) .  capped off by a live rendition of the girls' bouncy hit " say you'll be there , " a wealth of laughs and merriment is sure to follow , right ?  wrong . it's all downhill from there as spice world collapses into a series of misfired comedy sketches .  i must give the girls credit for their refreshing willingness to make fun of themselves , but writer kim fuller and director bob spiers can barely come up with a funny joke between them , much less a organized framework for all the " wacky " goings-on .  spice world jumps from vignette to vignette , subplot to subplot with no direction and little sense , at one minute having the girls meet with aliens ( no joke ) and at another having them stage a daring rescue of two young fans who fall into the water during a boat ride .  while a decent joke slips through the cracks here and there--during a " dance bootcamp " scene , the girls sing the lyric " we know how we got this far/strength and courage and a wonderbra " --much of the material is not even funny on the chuckle level .  some gags are just plain pointless , such as roger moore's recurring role as the mysterious chief , who dispenses cryptic , metaphor-heavy advice to clifford .  the only reason why i can think anyone would find that funny is the fact that moore once played james bond .  ha ha .  as weak as the script is , i think there's one insurmountable problem with even attempting to make a spice girls movie , and that is the girls themselves .  the point is not that they can't act ( and , for the record , they really _can't_ ) but that their individual personas , which works as a gimmick over the span of a four-minute music video , are too thin to survive outside of the truncated , video bite mtv world .  posh ( who garnered the most enthusiastic cheers during the introductions ) comes off best by default because her persona ( rich bitch ) most easily translates into character in a film .  baby's persona ( young innocent ) , to a lesser extent , also works , but the remaining girls' identities are a little harder to flesh out .  there really isn't much to do with sporty besides having her exercise every so often ( which is _exactly_ what fuller and spiers do ) , and , after all , what exactly entails being " ginger " or " scary " ?  apparently , just their wardrobes .  spice world manages to pick up some steam in the late going following a flashback performance of the spices' signature hit , " wannabe . "  the song is as grating as ever , but the energy of the number gives the proceedings a much-needed shot in the arm , setting the stage for a wave of self-referential humor stemmed from the screenwriters' film ideas ( the film almost mirrors robert altman's the player in the way the film snails into itself ) .  this section of the film , involving all manner of derring-do involving a speeding bus , is perhaps its most effective , but it also points up how all the other storylines ( the publisher , the documentary crew ) lack a satisfactory payoff .  spice world is harmless entertainment suitable for the entire family , and it will please the spice faithful .  but this sloppy enterprise surely won't win them any new fans , which is what the group sorely needs to bolster its rapidly waning girl power in the states .  once the hype disappears , spice world will likely serve as the the spices' final hurrah in america . 
pos@ with storytelling this compelling , who needs books ?  based on the book by author james ellroy , l . a . confidential is probably one of the best piece of work produced by hollywood in recent years .  together with director curtis hanson ( the hand that rocks the cradle , the river wild ) whom ellroy corroborated closely throughout the shooting of the film , resulted in a movie with a plot and and script so tight , an atom would have to squeeze itself through .  set in the 50s , the story revolves around 3 policemen of vivid personalities .  jack vincennes ( spacey ) is the cop who is more concerned on busting with fame and stardom ala hollywood style , concentrating heavily on work which will attract him media attention .  there is also the young hot-shot rookie , ed exley ( pearce ) , fresh out of the academy and all-out to carve a name for himself in the footsteps of his legendary cop father .  the tough and unnerving bud white ( crowe ) , a cop who believes in justice , the swift and violent way .  3 policemen , distinct in their characters and paths but all of them working in a place where there is no real distinction between good and evil .  when his partner is murdered on the day of his resignation , bud sets out to find the people responsible but unwittingly delved himself into something more than just a simple robbery murder .  even after exley receives a promotion for his work on the murder case , happenings began to link itself to the murder .  the 3 eventually reach a point of convergence when what actually began as a personal investigation turns out to be an uncovering of a complex web of organised-crime in hollywood .  the last time i remember a film so clever and compelling was when i watched the usual suspects .  in l . a . confidential , you do not get the shock and cleverness as the former but it has a lot more of `story' going for it .  there is not a single moment in the film in which i felt was slow at all .  surprisingly , though spacey did a very convincing job as the street-wise vincennes , the movie was carried mostly by the two rather `unknowns' , pearce and crowe .  pearce's exley is cool and calculative in his actions and there is a slight hint of val kilmer in his appearance .  crowe's bud white is the most impressive of all ; head-strong and temperamental , he should obtain some sort of recognition for his work here .  superb acting . , wonderful storytelling and one of the best climaxing gunfights ever .  easily the best hollywood piece for 1997 . 
neg@ there were four movies that earned jamie lee curtis the title of " scream queen " in the early '80s .  two of them were halloween movies , but the other two -- prom night and terror train -- were the uninspired knockoffs that came directly after the success of halloween .  the same " god , i'm scared , there's some guy in a mask coming after me " routine she did in john carpenter's classic , jamie lee copies here , with none of the urgency or suspense .  terror train takes place on ( where else ? ) a train , charted by some pre-med students finishing their first four years of higher education .  most of them won't make it to med school , though , and it's obvious from the foreshadowing done when the conductor complains , " i wish to hell they'd put a radio on that train . "  the conductor character probably has the most lines of anyone , even jamie lee .  from the beginning , he's talking his head off ( he tells one of his co-workers " think on this -- when's the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station ? "  as if it makes any kind of sense ) and it only gets better as he engages himself in an argument about the benefits of railroad over recreational vehicles .  of course , the loudmouth conductor is the first person to find a bloody body , which is then gone when he brings a skeptical trainman back to view it .  i forgot to mention the prologue .  it's a party three years earlier , with the same group of students .  two of them play a trick on a geeky frat pledge , promising him he's going to get laid .  they send jamie lee up to stand behind the bed and talk to the geek as he comes in , noticing a form on the bed .  she says , " kiss me , kenny , " and he kisses the body on the bed , which happens to be a cadaver .   ( " oh my god , they killed kenny !  you bastards ! " )  it's a sick trick , and one jamie lee wasn't let in on .  she still hasn't forgiven the guy as they board the terror train ( " you asshole , you can't have a good time without hurting somebody ! " ) .  the killing starts before the train even leaves the station .  since it's new year's , everyone's wearing disguises ( a convenient plot device we've seen before ) , and someone stabs the guy in the groucho mask when no one's looking .  at least one of the characters says it's a groucho mask ; when the killer dons it and steps aboard , it looks like gene shalit who , by the way , would make a great killer in a slasher movie .  speaking of weird-looking dorks who still persist on the entertainment scene , one of terror train's most famous gimmicks is the appearance of david copperfield " as the magician , " who regails those aboard with illusions set to disco music .  then there's his greatest trick -- getting laid with hair that looks like that .  for all its attempts at visual style and substance , terror train is more lionel than amtrak , more prom night than halloween , and nothing really worth watching .  only die-hard fans of jamie lee curtis and david copperfield ( if he truly has any fans ) should even attempt to watch it .  and it makes me wonder if a horror movie set in an rv could be much worse .  i mean , when was the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station , anyway ?  terror train is definitely the cinematic equivalent of a sleeper car . 
pos@ the event of events is upon us .  people have waited twenty-two years for the prequel to star wars and die-hard fans have been camping out at theaters for months to get tickets to see it .  i don't think that america will ever actually recover from what this hurricane of a film has caused .  it is not a bit of an exaggeration to say that this is the most highly anticipated movie in history .  anyone who tells you " it's just a movie " is either lying or clueless .  it is clearly obvious that after the waiting and the hype actually seeing the movie will be anticlimactic .  the second coming of the lord could not live up to the kind of buzz ( which is far too weak a word ) that star wars epsode i : the phantom menace so effortlessly generated .  but that does not mean that the film itself is bad .  in fact , it is terrific .  i strongly suspect that many of the people who were dissappointed by it have simply surrendered to the media machine and the inevitable backlash .  it is set some decades before the events of the original 1977 star wars took place .  the film focuses on the fledgling republic of planets and the conflict that is raging : the trade federation , angry at some tax raise that was recently put in place has invaded the small , peaceful planet of naboo .  the republic sent two jedi knights ( people that can actively communicate with what is affectionately known as " the force " ) , qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) and obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) to negotiate .  unable to stop the tide of events that was about to occur , the jedi and the queen of naboo ( natalie portman ) escape naboo and head for coruscant to try and get the republic senate to intervene .  on the way they get sidetracked to a planet called tatooine , where they meet the movie's real focal point , young anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) .  he is an innocent slave boy , but " the force is strong with him " so qui- gon is determined to take him with them to the jedi counsel and get him trained as a jedi .  as any self-respecting star wars fan should know , anakin will grow up to be darth vader and give birth to luke skywalker .  >from the beginning it is evident that this is not an actor's movie .  around 70% of the characters , if not more , are computer generated in one form or another , and though the effects are seamless , the movie lacks soul .  i think that although the computer has played an incredibly instrumental part in moviemaking this decade , cinema should still be a human art and the phantom menace nearly defies this .  this is the lightest installment in the star wars saga thus far , with plenty of broad comic relief to go around , much of it courtesy of an irritating knew character named jar-jar binks .  he's essentially a computer-animated sidekick who says things like " exqueeze me ? "  and " mesa go now , okeday ? " , and although it is often amusing it is also inherently annoying .  the visual effects are astounding ( although director george lucas often chickens out by cutting away from them ) and the movie is a thrilling triumph .  if it lacks in plot and in acting it makes up for it through imagination and excitement .  the climactic lightsaber battle ( oh , come on , as if you didn't already know ) , among other things , is outrageously entertaining and defines the term " popcorn movie " .  what made me surrender and give this movie * * * 1/2 stars was the score by john williams .  even though it does seem like the man scores every single movie that comes out these days , his work here is nothing short of brilliant .  his use of opera during the climax really does add a punch and his ingenious way of utilizing the imperial march as a sort of prophecy is chilling .  the phantom menace is probably most effective as pop nostalgia .  when you see " a long time ago , in a galaxy far , far away " , when the familiar music plays , when the words " star wars " appear on screen , you'll feel a tingle even if you didn't see the movie when it first came out in '77 .  it feels oddly exciting to be introduced to young anakin , a boy whose innocence , we know , will be taken away and who will soon cross over to the dark side .  it is the perfect example of dramatic irony to see the jedi masters aspire to get him trained in the jedi arts ; we know that it will do more harm than good , but they do not .  we not only feel more involved in the story , but we feel like we're seeing the beginning of a saga that we have cherished for years .  the phantom menace , although lacking in human aspects of the story , is a very worthy installment in the star wars .  it works as an action flick , visually eye-popping and often paralyzingly exciting ; it also works as an elicitor of memories , a piece of exquisite nostalgia .   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
neg@ when the haunting arrived in theaters , all i kept hearing about was the overdone special effects and the fact that very often the unseen bumps in the night in a horror film are far scarier than those that you can put a face to courtesy of special effects .  while i agree that this remake of the haunting goes a bit overboard in the visual effects department , i don't think that they are completely to blame for this movie's failure .  it appears that some people have failed to take into account that the original haunting had the " unseen " terrors , and it was about as scary as a dust bunny .  so special effects or not , if the story isn't the least bit scary , you aren't going to end up with a very frightening movie .  the thing that interested me most about this movie was the caretaker of this building played by bruce dern .  dern is always great , and even though he may have had only about 3 minutes of screen time he was still the most interesting element of the movie .  as i sat through the seemingly endless , albeit fairly impressive , special effects , i kept wishing that this movie was about dern's caretaker and not the one dimensional characters that populated the cast .  never a good sign when a bit player is the best part of the movie .  liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting experiments on fear .  he decides the best way to get results is to trick a group of fairly unstable individuals to spend a few days in a haunted mansion .  he tricks them into participating by letting on that he is conducting an experiment on insomnia .  and he also fails to mention that the mansion has a reputation for strange goings-on .  catherine zeta-jones , lili taylor and owen wilson play his subjects .  like the original , taylor's character is the star of the movie .  but since she doesn't quite have the marquee power of liam neeson and ms . zeta-jones , their parts did seem to be a big larger than in the original .  and let's face it , probably half the people who see this movie will do so because of zeta-jones .  i'll admit that i would have never seen this thing if she weren't in it .  but the real stars here is the special effects combined with the fairly overdone sets .  they take over the movie as the supernatural elements of the house start to interact with our hapless insomnia patients .  there really isn't much of a story here .  just endless setups so director jan de bont can showcase all the nifty special effects that he got to play with .  and the special effects are great .  in many cases they are as good as you are likely to see anywhere .  in other cases they are overdone and obviously thrown in just for the sake of hitting the " cool shots " quota .  at no point in the movie do any of these things ever come close to being scary -- funny , maybe .  but not scary .  then we have the set .  when i first saw the house , i was very impressed with the very cool gothic look about it .  but it only took a short tour by the characters around the place to see that the set designers obviously had as much money to burn as the visual effects people did , and decided to take the idiotically overdone route .  this included a flooded hallway with books as stepping stones and a mirrored circular room that revolves .  what part did these rooms play in the story ?  absolutely none .  they were just there to take our minds off the fact that there was neither a descent story nor a single scare in the entire movie .  then we have the actors .  lili taylor has never been one of my favorites .  and when the fact that her character is mousy and pathetic is factored in , she comes in around the average or slightly below mark .  i have no idea why liam neeson took this role .  he basically reminded me of the ringmaster at an out of control circus .  his character was in charge of this farce but it quickly got away from him .  i have no doubt that liam will want to lock all prints of this movie in a very secure vault along with all copies of darkman .  zeta-jones was cast because she is too hot for words .  the fact that her character is bi-sexual is just icing on the cake .  all catherine has to do in this movie is look good .  fortunately that is something she does very well .  while she does have a fairly good size part , it is obvious that her only purpose in the movie was as eye-candy .  it's too bad someone of her talents wasted them here .  any random supermodel pulled out of a fashion show could have easily filled her role .  the haunting is the antithesis of another of 1999's horror movies , the blair witch project .  the haunting had a seemingly limitless effects budget , while blair witch relies on piles of rocks for its scares .  both prove quite nicely that special effects are irrelevant to a horror film .  if the story sucks , it's all downhill from there .  my advice ?  if you are looking for special effects , go rent star wars .  if it's scares you want , rent halloween .  either way , it's probably in your best interests to skip the haunting . 
pos@ with the success of the surprise hit alien , directed by ridley scott , a sequel was inevitable .  in fact , after watching the first film , a sequel was wanted , particularly by this reviewer .  handing over the director's chair to recent box office gem james cameron , who had only made two films previous to this one ( pirahna ii , a surprisingly dull film , and terminator , making cameron a household name ) , the alien series got a face-lift of immense proportions .  instead of being a suspense/science fiction film , cameron alters the series and changing it into an action picture .  what results is one of the most terrifying films ever created .  a film like aliens comes along only once in a while , and when it does , audiences are usually unprepared for it .  i never saw this movie in theaters , but i wish i could have .  the terror and fright must have been unimaginable , most likely with audiences members literally shrieking in fear .  aliens is an action film unlike any i have ever seen .  with a science fiction plot , cameron gives aliens added testosterone , pumping up the action and fire power from the original film .  in fact , aliens is one of those few sequels which tops the original .  perhaps what makes the alien series so impressive is the hero--or heroine , as the case may be .  never have we had a more sympathetic hero in an action film , and never have i seen such an impressive acting job done by the main character .  sigourney weaver is possibly the only actress who could play this character and make her realistic enough for us to care about .  placing a woman in these situations would sometimes seem unusual , but because of weaver's presence , a woman is the only suitable hero .  aliens begins 57 years after alien ended .  lieutenant ellen ripley ( weaver ) is discovered in hypersleep on the nostromo and is awakened .  she explains how she is the only survivor of her past encounter with the aliens , but " the company " is doubtful .  they explain that a colony of families is flourishing on the same planet from which she just left .  despite stern warnings from ripley , the company remains rigid and won't call the families back .  however , when the company loses contact with the colony , ripley's story seems much more feasible .  one of the company's directors , carter burke ( paul reiser ) , wants to gather a team to travel to the planet .  this team includes a buff private vasquez ( jenette goldstein ) , a questionable corporal hicks ( michael biehn ) , and a loyal android bishop ( lance henriksen ) .  burke tags along with ripley as they fly to the planet in order to locate the members of the colony .  arriving on the planet , the team finds most of the human life extinguished in a cocoon-type environment .  the only survivor is 12 year old rebecca " newt " jorden ( carrie henn ) .  ripley finds this a chance to be the mother she never had the opportunity to become , and she becomes newt's surrogate mother .  ripley and newt are the only ones who knows what has happened , and soon , all hell breaks loose .  aliens not only multiplies the thrills and suspense from scott's version , it also multiplies the number of aliens in general .  alien focused on one alien in particular which systematically killed each crew member , except ripley , who managed to jettison the alien out of the nostromo .  aliens focuses on an entire race of these aliens , and as a result , the chills are incredibly heightened .  then again , this is james cameron , the guy who has given us true lies and terminator 2 : judgment day .  he is the best action director out there ( topping renny harlin , who directed cliffhanger ) , and only he could create something as terrifying as this film .  it seems that every alien film seems to have some memorable scene or scenes , and aliens has the motherload .  with perhaps one of the most astonishing endings ever created for an action film , aliens climax never seems to hit until the viewer is nearly pushed to extreme exhaustion .  i can't recall another film ever to sustain this level of intensity throughout , never dropping for a moment .  just when you think the movie is over , something else will occur , and it starts right back up again .  with a seemingly endless conclusion , aliens ends with one of the greatest moments in film history .  this scene is usually the one remembered most from the film , as lieutenant ripley steps into one of the lifting machines to fight the alien queen .  using flawless special effects , the climax is exhausting , leaving any audience member drained from extreme anxiety .  of course , for a film of this genre to work properly , the technical aspects must be realistic enough for us to believe what we see .  aliens is completely realistic , even a decade after its initial release .  the special effects are wonderfully seamless , with a terrifying alien to go with them .  one of the most overlooked aspects of this film is the music , composed by cameron-regular james horner .  horner has created a terrific score , receiving an oscar nomination for his work .  not only that , horner has also created one of the best scores for any action film , or science fiction film ever ( and that includes 2001 : a space odyssey , which was mainly a compilation of well-known composers ) .  in fact , the climax music is also some of the most recognized of film music .  the production design is incredible , which also happened to snag a nomination from the academy .  dark corridors lit by red lights are very impressive , but more impressive is the amount of terror which arises from well-lit locations .  normally a film will be very dark in order to scare a viewer ; aliens uses lights to scare the viewer .  then , of course , is the cinematography , which uses point of view shots , along with video feeds in order to build suspense .  some of the scariest scenes involve the perspective of ripley .  surprisingly , the acting is not only above average for this genre , but some of the best .  sigourney weaver received an oscar nomination for her portrayal of ripley , incorporating the right amount of sympathy into her hard-edged persona .  weaver soars above the rest in this film , but she is supposed to .  carrie henn gives an above average performance for a child , developing a three-dimensional character from her quiet attitude .  lance henriksen is terrific as bishop , showing that androids don't always have to be flat characters .  jenette goldstein shows a fair amount of enthusiasm with her role , and steals several scenes of her own ( though her personality becomes slightly annoying when she isn't fighting ) .  michael biehn gives a very nice performance in the most obligatory role of the film .  however , biehn does a good job , making it seem original again .  paul reiser may seem like an odd choice to play the sleazy corporate director , but reiser manages to pull it off quite well ( however , i still see him as paul on tv's " mad about you " ) .  a very good cast ( which also includes bill paxton and william hope ) highlights this action film , making it stand out from others .  aliens is rightfully rated r for violence , gore , language , and terror .  aliens is sort of the redefining moment of the science fiction genre , as alien was more of a suspense/horror film .  aliens pumps up the stakes , and cameron directs it with professional quality .  cameron certainly knows how to make a good action film , but here he proves how he can create some truly horrific moments on screen .  technically astonishing , aliens' only flaw is small characters who are only there to get killed .  aside from this , you probably won't experience anything like aliens for quite a while . 
neg@  " american pie " alums jason biggs and mena suvari star in this summer's attempt to capitalize on the youth market looking for a comedy about young people they can relate to that combines generic hollywood cute couple-ness and zany comedy .  it's about an a+ student ( biggs as " paul " ) who gets a scholarship to some college in new york city who sticks out like a sore thumb and falls for dora ( suvari ) a ditzy heroin-chic goth chick who has no ambition or self-respect whatsoever and allows herself to be pushed around just like " hick-boy " paul is .  so we've got a fish-out-water formula mixed with meet-cute romantic comedy which ideally should make for a good movie .  unfortunately the atrocious screenplay and boring direction by " clueless " auteur amy heckerling successfully manages to screw up everything about the film .  these characters are totally unrealistic and unbelievable - it's as if everyone under age 30 is a stoned raver .  there's no background or details to anyone or anything , it's just a bunch of cartoon characters running into each other .  not to mention the story itself which is virtually non-existant and contains so many plotholes it's like swiss cheese .  even the basic editing is bad .  if you're looking for a romantic comedy stay far away from this one because it is neither romantic nor funny .  i saw this in a packed cinema on opening night and the audience barely laughed at all .  if you've seen the commericials you've seen all the " funny " parts ( which are all from the first five minutes ) . 
pos@ is it just me , or have disney films gradually lost their appeal ?  i was almost stunned by the quality of " who framed roger rabbit ? " , a fun , unique look at a world where cartoons and people lived together .   " the little mermaid " harkened back to , and perhaps surpassed , the classic disney animations from the first half of the century .  however , the endless stream of " the little mermaid " wanna-be's is getting to me .  you know the spiel : a lame plot recycled from some well-known story , colorful , almost psychedelic animation , the lead character who learns a valuable moral lesson , the comedic sidekick/sidekicks , the seemingly unattainable love interest , a few catchy songs , a few in-jokes for adults , and the occasional out of place warner-brothers-coyote-fall-off-the-cliff type joke .  it's a formula , and like any formula , it gets tiresome .  that's why i'm delighted to hear that disney recently picked up the international distribution rights to the works of ghibli , a japanese cartoon studio .  from what i've seen of their movies ( " kiki's delivery service " and the already english-dubbed and american- distributed " my neighbor totoro " ) , foreign audiences are in for a treat .  these movies , particularly " kiki's delivery service , " are wonderfully original and entertaining .   " kiki's delivery service " starts with an unusual premise : kiki , upon hearing forecasts of clear skies , decides it is time for her to leave home .  this is unusual because kiki isn't a college student or a young adult making her start on the world , but a thirteen year old girl eager to begin her training as a witch .  her mother is also a witch , and as thirteen is the obligatory age for such training , her parents treat her leaving understandingly and put up only token resistance .  just the idea of a witch heroine may scare away some audiences , but no mention is made of the occult , and the subject is dealt with harmlessly throughout the movie : kiki's mother acts as a village doctor , and kiki is able to do no more than fly on a broom .  kiki must choose a city to move to , and what she chooses is the co-star of the movie : a german seaport town , far removed from the country life she has been used to .  initially lost in the impersonal hugeness of her surrounding , she's discouraged , and unable to support herself though her rudimentary skills as a witch .  on the verge of leaving for a new town , she uses her power of flight to deliver a pacifier to a baby who dropped it .  the favor eventually blossoms into her working as a courier , a one-persons delivery service .  this is where the movie becomes shockingly good .  kiki's job is a catalyst for her realizing the beauty of the city and the world around her .  the townspeople she is put in contact possess an inner worth that doesn't seem forced or artificial , but merely derived from looking at ordinary people in a different light .  they're three- dimensional , impossible to quickly evaluate , possessing of faults , and understandably reserving in kindness towards a strange girl .  however , each one has something about them , some interest or trait , that makes them interesting and unique .  the personal beauty of the citizens is complimented by the beauty of the surroundings : the seaport town genuinely looks impressive , capturing the european charm of a medieval city adapted to the more modern needs of the 1950's .  this beauty is beauty with depth ; for every detail left in , dozens are only hinted at .  i could probably go on all day , but i won't ; suffice it to say that many of these minor details could have been the highlight of the movie .  some of my favorites are kiki's relationship with the baker's husband : although he's quiet , never shown speaking to kiki throughout the movie , and he initially scares her , his kindness wins her friendship .  in the garage of a deliveree's house can be found a vintage model t . two old ladies have a relationship evolving from master-servant to friend-friend .  such details gives the impression that the beauty shown in the movie is only the tip of the iceberg .  added on top of this is a lesson on the importance of self-worth .  kiki initially seems to derive much of her self-worth from the beauty of her surroundings and the people around her , but an encounter with a rude girl crashes down her bewonderment , making her question the importance of such beauty .  this causes kiki to lose faith in herself .  however , kiki comes to realize not only the beauty of her surroundings , but the innate beauty inside her .  seeing kiki regain faith in herself is marvelous , and the principal device used to do it is so sublime that i don't even want to hint at it .  the ending of the movie has a subtle charm combined with a sense of awe and , ironically , the most disney-esque moment i've ever seen ; if you don't hold your breath in wonder you might want to get medical attention .  the movie steers free of many of the disney conventions : there is no violence , however cartoonish , no song-and-dance number , and kiki's pet cat jiji is more a friend than a comedic sidekick , although jiji is given many funny lines and scenes .  however , i would be surprised if disney doesn't give jiji more jokes , or at least the voice of some comedian .  refreshingly enough , the moral lesson of the movie is not self-contradicted , a habit disney movies have gotten into .   " beauty and the beast " 's beautiful belle , for instance , learned that beauty was derived from a person's inside , and was then rewarded by having the beast turn into a handsome prince in snazzy clothing .  kiki , on the other hand , learns to separate her wardrobe from her self-image , and nothing more is made of her early desires for better clothing than illustrating her increased maturity at the end of the film .  another difference with disney movies is in the style of animation for " kiki's delivery service " : not as colorful and dynamic as disney animation can be , but with a greater attention to realism and detail , it fits the movie to a t . this is particularly true with scenes of kiki's flights .  the extreme realism of the birds in flight near kiki is magnificent to behold , and helps these scenes capture the wonder of flight better than any other film i've ever seen .  i'm not sure when or how this movie will be released in the united states .  disney tentatively plans a theater release of " monoko hime " shortly following the summer '97 japanese release , and should start releasing the other ghibli films after that .  i'd guess that some will be released on video and some will be theatrically released in peak seasons with no competing disney release .  although the wait is unfortunate , it's good to know that it's being released at all , for " kiki's delivery service " is definitely a movie worthy of widespread promotion and release .  watch this movie .  along with " man bites dog , " and perhaps something by woody allen , this is the best movie i've ever seen . 
neg@ not so long ago , men by the names of peckinpah , ford , leone , and eastwood made westerns .  real westerns .  these were some of the best films of the twentieth century .  those days are gone .  now we have crap like wild wild west to pass for the western .  and that record is not improved with the unbearable tale of american outlaws .  outlaws is yet another re-telling of the jesse james legend , courtesy of b-movie king james g . robinson ( producer of such classics as wrongfully accused and chill factor ) .  delayed since the spring , this version stars the irish hunka hunka burning love colin farrell ( the best part of schumacher's tigerland ) as the bad-ass jesse james .  alas , any sense of his character has been left on the ranch , leaving us with only cute chicks like ali larter ( minus the whipped cream ) to watch .  the spin this time around : fresh from serving as southern militiamen in the civil war , jesse james ( farrell ) , his brother frank ( gabriel macht ) , and his pal cole younger ( scott caan ) lay down their arms and head home to missouri to tend the family farms after the war has ended .  but trouble is brewing in their small town of liberty when evil railroad baron thaddeus rains ( harris yulin ) and his cronies rollin parker ( terry o'quinn ) and allan pinkerton ( timothy dalton ) demand the boys turn over their lands to the railroads .  the jameses and the youngers then join forces to fight the railroad -- by robbing banks up and down missouri , thus cutting off the railroad's financial surplus and playing robin hood to the local people .  along the way , the boys squabble over who's the cutest of the gang , who's the most popular cowboy in the gang , and who ought to go on mtv's total request live .  they rob numerous banks with identical interiors , always with the kindest of hearts , strutting in their grungy dusters as moby songs play in the background .  the witty banter they share could be plastered within a hallmark card .  the biggest disappointment here lies in the acting of colin farrell .  after a great job in tigerland , farrell walks through this role easier then nicolas cage in gone in 60 seconds .  and his american accent rivals richard gere's irish accent in the jackal .  combined with feeling like bonanza : the teen years , this homogenized production ( toned down to get the ever-popular pg-13 rating ) gives us an invincible jesse james that quickly grows tiresome and boring .  the unbearable villains courtesy of timothy dalton and thaddeus rains spend the entire film proclaiming that everyone should be hanged , sucking out any energy left in the film .  not to mention : the real story of jesse james and his gang bears no resemblance to the plot of american outlaws .  instead , the movie is full of old , outrageous tales about the wild west -- tales which went out of style in 5-cent magazines about a century ago . 
pos@ the " submarine " genre of movies seems to be one of the most intriguing and compelling types of storytelling there is .  think about it . . .  these films are completely based in reality , yet only a handful of people have ever been on one , making them fascinating to the general public .  they aren't like movies that take place on a plane or a train , as anybody can get on one of those .  and they aren't like movies that happen in outer space either , because no one's done any of that stuff yet .  when a new one comes out , you don't hear anyone say " ugh , another submarine movie " like people tend to say " ugh , another boxing movie " .  look at modern movies that involve submarines : das boot , the abyss , the hunt for red october , crimson tide . . .  all are well regarded as top-notch entertainment .  gladly joining that bunch is u-571 , which stars matthew mcconaughey as the executive officer of a u . s . naval submarine during world war ii .  we learn he has been denied a recommendation for his own command by his superior ( bill paxton ) .  mcconaughey's crew then receives orders that they will be boarding a disabled german submarine to steal the enigma , a german communications encoding device that has stumped allied intelligence .  the mission goes horribly wrong however , and as a result , mcconaughey and only a handful of his crew ( as well as a captured german ) become trapped aboard the u-571 in enemy waters .  the first great thing about u-571 is the film's opening sequence .  the german crew of u-571 are under attack , which sets the events of the rest of the film into motion .  it's tense , exciting and fascinating .  and i applaud the filmmakers for not copping out and instead keeping the entire sequence in german with english subtitles .  most movies with a scene this long would have panicked and had the german crew speaking english right away .  once the plot gets moving , u-571 gives us action sequence after action sequence , making the audience wonder " ok , now how do they get out of this ? " .  the stakes keep raising ( much like in executive decision , an excellent action-thriller ) , and even though the audience knows how the film will end , it's a lot of fun getting there .  i only have two minor complaints about the entire film .  the first comes from the scenes which follow the opening sequence .  while their purpose is to introduce us to the characters and to get the story going ( which they do ) , i feel as though it could have been done much quicker , and less conventionally .  i mean , did we really have to see the ship's crew at a wedding ?  because of that , you now know exactly what's going to happen to the groom !  my other gripe would be during the film's finale .  there's an explosion which ends the film that is one of the weakest looking cgi effects since the president's plane crashed into the ocean at the end of air force one .  i cannot stress this enough . . .  until a cgi effect can be made to look like a model effect , stick with using models .  yes , u-571 is historically incorrect and there are surely some specifics in the plot that people who have been onboard a submarine will tell you " that couldn't happen " , but the overall point of this film is entertainment .  it succeeds fantastically .  [pg-13] 
neg@ this is crap , but , honestly , what older american audience is going to be able to resist seeing jack lemmon and james garner as bicker- ing ex-presidents ?  especially when their supporting players in- clude dan aykroyd as the current commander in chief , lauren bacall as a former first lady , and john heard as the dan quayle-ish vice president .  yup , you're talkin' pre-sold property here and , for warner brothers , the perfect fit into their now-ritual grumpy old men holiday slot .  for the non-discriminating viewer , my fellow americans is fine .  the raw star power alone will have audiences applauding this atrocious political- thriller road-comedy .   ( they did in mine , heaven help us . )  for the rest of us , the movie is immediately tiresome .  the tone is terrible and the banter is worse .  forget wit-- lemmon and garner merely exchange profanities through most of the movie .   ( has anyone counted the number of first penis references ? )  sure , some of the bits are absurdly funny , including a men's room macarena joke , the appearance of an elvis impersonator on a trainload of tarheels , and an all dorothy marching band performing " over the rainbow " at a gay men's march .  the get there from here , though , you have to submit to one of the most offensively overbearing musical scores of all time .  judas priest , is there a single moment of silence in this film ?  even the dialogue gets drowned out .  what a waste . 
pos@ a couple of months ago , when i first downloaded the face/off trailer from the net , my initial reaction was a fourteen carrot gold 'yawn' .  followed swiftly by a press of my computers delete key , not wanting to waste six or seven megabytes of precious space on this piss-poor trailer .  then i started reading the first wave of reviews from the u . s . . . . . unique . . . excellent . . . . must-see .  well , i thought still skeptical , i suppose i might as well go see it when it gets here .  'here' , of course , was still three months away .  i'll admit , when i trotted off to see this film , the only john woo movie i had seen before was the fairly enjoyable but highly forgetable broken arrow .  i'd heard good things about his previous work with movies like hard boiled , but his films were definitely not on my must-see list .  that , let me tell you , has changed completely .  i knew this fact only five minutes into the film , after the brilliantly shot and acted opening sequence where sean archer loses his son blew me off my feet .  the acting throughout the film is staggeringly good for an action flick .  seriously .  i've never been a big john travolta fan , but he , like cage , perfectly suited his role in the movie . . . . . sorry ,  make that 'roles' in the movie .  even travolta's great performance , however , paled in comparison to cage's character portrayals .  my favourite cage scene was definitely when he was crashed out in compardre dietrich hassler's hideout .  half drugged out of his mind , he sits there reclining back in a chair talking about his son's death from castor's perspective - " doesn't it just break your heart . " he mutters coldly .  now don't go thinking from the previous comments about brilliant acting that this is a drama focused movie - it's not .  that's what really makes this movie unique .  it's an action movie with brilliantly portrayed characters . . . . . not a common mix at all .  suspension of disbelief is paramount in this movie though . . . . . that's  the only way to overlook the fact that travolta and cage fire around 5671 rounds at each other . . . . and  never hit .  several action scenes are just so well choreographed that they just make wish that you could press 'rewind' and watch it over again .  the part where archer and troy have a stand off on either side of a double-sided mirror is just plain brilliant .  whilst cage's and travolta's performances would be enough alone to sustain most movies , the lesser characters are just as intriguing .  joan allen , who usually sticks to the straight drama movies , plays her part perfectly as archer's long suffering wife .  i like the fact that her character didn't end up toting a gun at the end of the movie . . . it  would have wrecked her potrayal .  gina gershon was surprising to say the least as castor troy's mistreated girlfriend . . . . . make that * one of * castor troy's mistreated girlfriends .  other movies would have used her character as just window dressing . . . a  sex object , but instead her character is very strong and independent .  dominique swain , who plays archer's daughter , also does a nice job , though her character is not as explored as much as allen's or gershon's .  faults ? well . . . there were some i have to say .  first , the movie's ending , whilst being very good overall , was a bit too drawn out for it's own good .  after the two combatants begin duelling again after the final boat crash you can't help but think - " geez , are you guys nuclear powered or what ? " .  there were certain bits that weren't handled properly , like where archer appears safe and sound on solid ground after jumping off the converted oil platform/prison - more explanation here would have been nice .  overall , this movie was not perfect .  but i thought it was about as close as an action movie has ever came to perfect .  many critics have claimed that this movie will change the way action movies are made . . . . . i  certainly hope so . 
neg@ an affluent horse breeder's past comes up to haunt him ; an ages old cover-up and blackmail comes back to haunt him at the hands of one of his accomplices .  that's pretty much the essence of the movie and i have to say that it becomes quite boring at times and is very slow .  that aside the story was well presented and probably quite close and representative of its source .  the acting in particular i found very good , the character development was also quite interesting but alas the story simply did not hold my interest enough for me to get into the movie .  a few things about the story didn't sit very well with me for example the original scam and cover-up heavily involved the character played by sharon stone , yet in the end her character played a relatively small role and it seems she should have been utilized more to further the story along better .  on the flip side the character played by catherine keener i found to be very interesting and i thought that it was developed very well and helped the story a lot .  the character's aside this movie had some interesting merits but in the end it lacked in story and pacing .  as far as the acting and casting for this movie is concerned i have to say that the choices of nick nolte and jeff bridges were great as well as that of catherine keener .  all these people acted their parts admirably , as for the part that sharon stone played , she played it well but the part was not utilized enough .  the directing for this movie is something that i have to comment on because for once in a long while you see a director actually add a very distinctive flavor to a movie , this is one of those occasions .  matthew warchus in my opinion added an interesting touch and spin to the movie and i think he tackled a touch subject ( i myself wouldn't be able to look at horseracing and make a movie out of it ) .  there is a certain flavor about this movie and i think that the direction of the movie is the reason for this .  the one flaw that i do have to comment on is the pacing , the subject matter in my opinion wasn't interesting enough on its own to have this kind of flavoring and directorial touch about it .  i certainly hope that the director makes more movies as this does show promise even if i myself don't like it .  all in all i found this movie boring and very slow , the acting was good but the story just didn't evolve enough and wasn't captivating enough to make simpatico an enjoyable movie to watch .  although there is much going for the movie i didn't find it good even though i see the merits and style used and can compliment the movie on them .  i wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone but if you are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic then you will most likely enjoy this movie . 
pos@ krippendorf's tribe is a formula comedy .  done poorly , formulaic comedies might seem to signify the downfall of american cinema .  however , every now and then , one emerges , like krippendorf's tribe , that actually works .  professor james krippendorf ( richard dreyfuss ) , the renowned anthropologist , is in trouble .  his university gave him a hefty grant to discover a lost tribe in new guinea .  however , he found . . . nothing .  his wife has recently died , and he has spent the remainder of the grant money in raising his three kids : shelly ( natasha lyonne ) , mickey ( gregory smith ) and edmund ( carl michael lidner ) .  tonight , he is expected to lecture on his newfound tribe .  rather than break the news ( and face the consequences of misusing his funds ) , he invents a tribe : the shelmikedmu ( named after his kids ) .  however , one lie begets another as he is not only required to deliver filmed proof of the shelmikedmu , but his research becomes a popular phenomenon .  soon , professor krippendorf is caught up in an elaborate ruse in which he films mockumentary footage starring his children as the shelmikedmu tribal members .  his efforts are hampered by the boasts of an over-eager colleague , veronica micelli ( jenna elfman ) , and the intense scrutiny of a rival anthropologist , ruth allen ( lily tomlin ) .  krippendorf's tribe does seem to require a little suspension of disbelief .  no one seems to question the way his field documentaries seem to be shot with multiple cameras , or that his newly discovered tribesmen have startlingly blue eyes .  luckily , as the film builds momentum , that suspension of disbelief is easy to come by .  though there's some mild humor in the krippendorf family trying to pass themselves off as a lost tribe , the real humor of the film is in how james gets trapped in his ever increasing snowball of lies .  the double meanings to many of the shelmikedmu appearances are enjoyable , and the comic timing required for some of the film's latter scenes is superb .  richard dreyfuss is terrific as the hapless professor who soon loses control of his own imaginary tribe .  jenna elfman's position as a romantic lead seems a bit forced at times , but she plays the part with extreme affability .  even the kids , who in films like this tend to be a bit on the precocious side , are endearing and humorous .  yes , the film does veer occasionally into some rather lowbrow humor , but it has the best excuse of all : it's funny .  it may not go down as an all-time classic , but it certainly delivers what you expect from a comedy : plenty of laughs . 
neg@ first and foremost i think this movie comes to grief at the hands of the pg rating it's been given .  for those of us who haven't read the james lee burke novel that heaven's prisoners is based on , do not rabidly go out and buy tickets to movies featuring the combined talents of alec baldwin and eric roberts , feel vaguely depressed by the notion of swamps , gangsters with louisiana accents , plots , sub-plots , more plots , and well , really just want to see teri hatcher naked , this is one movie you're going to worry the price of admission over .  hopeful still ?  well , let me share my moment of sheer panic , and then the cold enervation of the big let-down when a semi-robed hatcher purrs to alec baldwin , " what do you think of my butterfly ? " .  butterfly ? ,  i asked myself , what butterfly ? !  and then it hit me . . .  the scene had been snipped !  damn you , godless pg rating , show us her butterfly ! !  we want to see the goddamn butterfly ! ! !  so . . .  no naked teri hatcher .  forget about that .  okay ?  now . . .  heaven's prisoners is about ex-alchoholic ex-cop dave robicheaux ( alec baldwin ) who's trying to discover life anew running a bait shop and boat hire business with his loving , down-to-earth wife annie ( kelly lynch ) .  everything dull , but hunky dory until a plane carrying illegal immigrants crashes almost ontop of the couple while they're on their boat .  the plane nosedives into the water and sinks , but from its wreckage robicheaux rescues a little pixie-faced salvadoran girl whom he and his wife immediately decide to adopt .  what they don't realise is that the plane's pilot was also a drug dealer , and that the plane had been sabotaged by the latter's erstwhile colleagues .  when robicheaux discovers this , he predictably , against the advice of his wife , a well-meaning dea agent , and two gangsters who rough him up , begins 'poking his nose where it don't belong' , we know that the man deserves all the misery he's going to get .  the question now is whether or not you want to be dragged along for the ride through a tedious , meandering yet utterly suspenseless plot with an unlovable hero as your guide .  as dave robicheaux , alec baldwin is fat . . .  no seriously , this is not the svelte , thinking man's hero of the hunt for red october , it is an out-of-shape guy who doesn't look too good in a roof-top chasing scene .  he's also unconvincing in the movie's dramatic moments , acting with what as far as i can tell is a steven segal-like economy of expression .  three-quarters of the way through the show , while you're probably waiting for the next scene in a bar where robicheaux contemplates succumbing to the temptation of the whiskey bottle , getting drunk and beating up someone or getting beaten up , you'll want to beat on him a little yourself .  on the other hand , mary stuart masterson ( some kind of wonderful , fried green tomatoes , benny & joon ) cast as a down-and-out stripper who has her fingers broken is quite a breath of fresh air , with just the right mix of cynicism , warmth , insecurity and humour to be the movie's only endearing character .  eric roberts as bubba rocque , always believable as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box ( see final analysis , coincidentally also directed by phil joanou ) is believable here as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box .  and lest we forget teri hatcher's role in all this , this being her rather well-publicised paid vacation from playing lois lane on tv's " adventures of lois & clark " . . .  she is totally ridiculous as rocque's manipulative and seductive cajun wife , coming across as devious as a mildly disgruntled au pair who's trying to get back at an employer who hasn't been giving her enough days off .  it's probably safe to say that her day job beckons .  and at the end of our day , none of this is really worth 2 hrs and 12 minutes of our personal misery .  the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
pos@ like the great musical pieces of mozart himself , amadeus is a true work of art .  it is one of those few movies of the 80's that will be known for its class , its style , and its intelligence .  why is this such a good film ?  there are almost too many reasons to explain .  the story : court composer salieri ( f .  murray abraham ) feels waves of different emotions going through his head as wolfgang amadeus mozart ( tom hulce ) comes into his life as the young genius composer .  salieri feels envy , and jealousy , but at the same time is fascinated with mozart's brilliance and ingenious .  we travel through mozart's life as a composer , through his struggles , his triumphs , and ultimately , his demise .  the acting : abraham is magnificient as salieri ; his acting range enables him to focus on each individual emotion and express it through his speech and body language .  this performance earned him a well deserved oscar .  tom hulce is interesting as well as mozart , a quirky , annoying bratty kid with an annoying laugh .  he's strong , but weak at the same time , and must be aided by his wife ( elizabeth berridge ) , who is good in her role , but lacks dramatic depth .  jeffrey jones , in a smaller , more dignified role than such roles in stay tuned and mom and dad save the world , is cast perfectly because of his noble charm .  the movie : every element of this movie works .  the costumes and makeup are very memorable , as well as its stunning art direction , and unforgettable scores ( adapted from mozart's original music ) .  while wolfgang amadeus mozart was a genius at music , milos forman proves with his film that he is a genius of filmmaking .  this movie is a classic that will be remembered for years to come .  ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and  i like it .  i like breathing through it . "  -jack nicholson , chinatown 
neg@ i read the new yorker magazine and i enjoy some of their really in-depth articles about some incident .  they will take some incident like the investigation of a mysterious plane crash and tell you what happened in detail .  it becomes a real education in what agencies get involved and how theories are suggested , and what kind of pressure the investigators are under , and just about any other aspect you can think of .  frequently i get the feeling that the article sounded exciting , but i am being told in more detail than i really wanted to know .  often i get to the middle of a story and say , ok , it sounded good but i now have invested more time than i am willing to spend on this subject .  film is a different medium .  it is a visual medium .  that slows down the telling of stories much more than people realize .  i frequently am surprised to find out how short a film script is and how much of the pages are empty space .  the magazine article and the film script are two very different media .  the insider is a film adaptation of the vanity fair article " the man who knew too much " by marie brenner .  it is too much an adaptation of a magazine article slowed to the pace of a film .  it really verges on being tedious at least at times .  for years the seven big companies knew that they dealt in an addictive drug that caused a host of unhealthy side-effects .  but they pretended for the public that it was unproven and they did not really believe it .  the business was incredibly profitable and the proceeds translated into the political power to squelch and discredit any political movements against big tobacco .  the tide turned when a former vice-president of one of the companies was convinced by the cbs 60 minutes news team to tell the public how much the tobacco companies really knew about the health effects of smoking .  the resulting pressure to stop the story created a small civil war at cbs .  who were the major people involved , what were their motives , how was the story almost killed , how did it get aired anyway ?  that is the story covered in surprising detail by the insider .  this all could have been enthralling , but it is not the sort of thing that a stylist like michael mann would be likely to do well .  and in the end , he failed .  to make a long story short , the film needed a director who knew how to make a long story short .  the film opens with the cbs 60 minutes team in iran with the assignment to interview a terrorist .  we get a taste for their personal style and how they get the upper hand .  they go from being one newsman blindfolded at the hands of the terrorists to the actual interview with mike wallace ( played by christopher plummer ) .  there the news team under producer lowell bergman ( al pacino ) are ordering around the terrorists and getting away with it .  this seems to have nothing to do with the main line of the story , but later when the tobacco industry is so much harder to manipulate than committed terrorists , we have a wry irony on who really has clout in the world .  terrorists can grab the headlines , but the tobacco companies have the real position of power .  incongruously intercut with the iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wigand ( russell crowe ) dejectedly returning from work to his home .  we discover that he has been fired and his career brought to a complete halt unexpectedly .  he had been a very profitably rewarded vice-president in charge or research and development at brown and williams tobacco ; now he was unemployed and needed money to support his family .  rather than support him his wife liane ( diane venora ) demands of him what are they supposed to do for income .  meanwhile the 60 minutes team trying to do a story on fires started by cigarettes have obtained some data they do not understand .  they offer wigand $12 , 000 just to interpret the data .  wigand's severance agreement swears him to secrecy about anything he knows about tobacco dealings , but he is reluctantly he stretches the severance terms .  he is willing to read some documents from another tobacco company and interpret them for bergman .  in spite of the secrecy , wigand's former employers seem immediately to know wigand is talking to 60 minutes and he is warned off by former boss thomas sandefur played michael gambon in an all too brief but deliciously sinister role .  and so the game begins .  wigand is irate at his negative treatment for what he still considered continued to be loyalty to his agreement and his former employer .  meanwhile someone is playing very rough with wigand and his family .  the film examines wigand and the pressures placed on his family as they are caught between two powerful giants .  wigand has always wanted to make tobacco safer and has natural sympathies with getting the story out .  he and his family are assaulted psychologically and financially by the giant tobacco industry that had never lost a legal fight .  al pacino is given top billing but the wigand family is the core of the insider .  the story is told slowly and in just a bit too much meticulous detail .  the film is 157 minutes and is an extremely demanding film for the audience .  the musical score by pieter bourke , lisa gerrard , and graeme revell is one of the worst in recent memory .  it puts ominous chords under some scenes and using voice in ways that become a distraction that gets in the way of the storytelling .  also disturbing is the casting of christopher plummer as mike wallace .  plummer and wallace are such different types and wallace is too well-known for even so good an actor as plummer to play him convincingly .  this film might have been a really engaging experience under another director's control .  michael mann was the wrong person to helm this film and the insider lacks intensity because of his style .  i rate it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
pos@ quentin tarantino seems to have a knack for giving his stars big careers .  after his pulp fiction , many actors began receiving many offers for jobs .  john travolta made his come-back and is now one of today's most bankable stars .  bruce willis proved his acting chops and is now considered an actual actor .  jackie brown , on the other hand , boasts quite a well known cast , except for the main lead : pam grier .  most likely you have heard of her and seen her in films , but she's never really had a breakthrough performance ( her first film was in the roger ebert-written beyond the valley of the dolls ) .  that is , until now .  jackie brown is a highly anticipated feature film from quentin tarantino , whose last film was the huge hit pulp fiction .  after mediocre acting jobs , tarantino returns to what made his name a household one : directing and writing .  jackie brown is the result , and it is fantastic entertainment .  despite excellent direction from tarantino , the cast steals the film , giving one good performance after another .  pam grier gives a stunning performance as jackie brown , and she is supported by an incredible mix of talent--samuel l . jackson , bridget fonda , michael keaton , robert de niro , and robert forster .  more than likely , you will see a few of these names in the oscar pool come oscar nominations .  describing a quentin tarantino film is very difficult , as you really can't say much or you spoil it for everyone else .  i will tread lightly .  jackie brown opens with an impressive shot of jackie brown ( grier ) in a blue outfit walking through the airport .  the camera tracks along with her , and ends up revealing her occupation .  we are also introduced to ordell robbie ( jackson ) , who sells illegal guns to interested buyers . . .  for a hefty price .  ms . brown carries the money from buyer to ordell in order to keep the cops away .  however , an fbi agent ( keaton ) and a local l . a . cop ( michael bowen ) are out to find ordell and catch him while taking the money .  they try to reach him through beaumont livingston ( chris tucker ) , one of ordell's buyers , but he mysteriously ends up dead .  they try again through brown , but she is hesitant to admit to any wrong-doing .  but after unknowingly carrying some drugs for one of ordell's friends ( fonda ) , she is caught and sent to jail .  ordell pays her bail through a bail bond agent , max cherry ( forster ) , and then wants to find out what she told the cops .  after she claims to have said nothing , she reveals the fact that she will tell them about ordell in order to stay out of prison .  ordell doesn't like this , but they both come up with a scheme to throw the feds and cops off their track .  this scheme seems to be going as planned , but unexpected occurances may or may not foul up their goal .  revealing more would spoil the fun of jackie brown , and that's the biggest reason to go see a tarantino film .  tarantino seems to have a fascination with hitmen and unusual predicaments ( and slang terms ) , but they are always done very well and believably .  his hitmen are normally cruel , but pleasant , in that nasty sort of way .  they talk like normal people , except for when doing business , and they are rude to their girlfriends .  of course , this is a tarantino film , and you know you can expect some awkward situations to arise .  and perhaps the biggest flaw with jackie brown is the slow middle section in which the pace begins to drop .  of course , tarantino fixes this by moving onto the climax of the film , adding a lot of his reservoir dogs-style storytelling to it .  things are told from one person's perspective , and then from another , and then from another , each time learning more and more .  this all leads up to a very interesting conclusion , which decides who is on whose side .  on the technical side of jackie brown , quentin tarantino directs it with the same style as he did with his 1994 film .  however , this time around it isn't as nearly as impressive or original .  the writing , on the other hand , is quite good , although i do find tarantino's use of slang terms offensive .  the story jumps back and forth in time as in pulp fiction , but it's much more easy to understand .  his previous film needed a second viewing in order to understand the time differentiation , but jackie brown is very simply to follow , especially considering that the time is given during the " leaps " in time .  perhaps this is a result of the screenplay being written from the novel " rum punch " by elmore leonard .  the dialogue is pretty much intelligent , and all the characters are fully realized .  the cinematography is very well done by guillermo navarro ( who has worked with tarantino on previous films ) and the editing is very good .  and as with pulp fiction , the music is a highlight , bringing back memorable songs from the 70s and 80s .  the acting side of jackie brown is unforgettable .  the performances are incredibly rich , with hidden meaning behind every characters' actions .  nothing is quite as it seems , and you can't really tell which side one person is on .  the real treat , of course , is pam grier who gives an astonishing performance as jackie brown .  her poor living conditions are superceded by her superior wits , which play an important role in the film .  watching grieg , i could tell what was going through her mind , even if i didn't know what she was thinking .  her face portrays a lot of emotion that you can tell when she is sad , happy , or in deep thought .  bridget fonda gives a very good performance as a druggie couch potato .  i didn't even realize it was fonda until i saw her name in the final credits ( her performance actually reminded me of heather graham's in boogie nights ) .  michael keaton comes across very well , as does michael bowen .  chris tucker has a small , but effective performance .  samuel l . jackson is very good , but it seems to me that he was replaying his jules winnfield character from pulp fiction ( although much less cynical ) .  but no matter . . .  jackson is very strong in his role .  robert de niro is actually a little annoying at times , but overall he does a good job as one of ordell's perspective clients and friends .  robert forster gives one of the best performances in the film , as he has one of the most developed characters .  he is present throughout most of the film , and he holds his own against jackson and grier .  jackie brown is rated r for language , sex , violence , drug use , and some offensive remarks .  as a film by itself , jackie brown is a terrific piece of entertainment , with a complex plot to draw viewers in .  however , one can not help but compare it to tarantino's pulp fiction , and expect great results .  when compared , it comes up short , but not that short .  it's a worthy effort , with terrific acting and some impressive writing from elmore leonard and tarantino .  perhaps the best thing about jackie brown is the discovery of pam grier as a major hollywood actress .  i can't remember seeing her in anything ( except for a small role in mars attacks ! ) , but hopefully she will get many more roles from this one .  expect to see her name floating around the oscar nominations ( and hopefully she will even be able to nab one ) . 
neg@ capsule : liebes meets tod .  this was a film about sex and death .  a morgue attendant accidentally revives a dead woman through necrophilia and brings her into his world which is heavy on orgies .  this film says something obscure about the relationship of sex and death , but imparts no insights .  to make matter worse this print was poorly subtitled into english from french .  0 ( -4 to +4 )  - an attractive 18-year-old dies on a disco floor and gets sent to a morgue .  one of the attendants , ben ( jean-marc barr ) is so attracted by her that he attempts necrophilia .  we see him crawling away after a shock .  in the middle of sex the dead teen has come back to life .  - the morgue attendant was just adding a new form of sex to his collection of kinks .  he was already part of a group that gets together for s/m sex .  the revived teen , teresa ( elodie bouchez ) joins them .  - moral dilemma of teresa's father .  ben has abused his daughter's body , but in doing so has saved her life .  - part of this opaque allegory is a man saved from suicide who joins in the sexual hijinx .  also involved is a man in the final stages of dying of aids , a close friend of the morgue attendant .  he does not get involved in the orgies .  - the subtitles of our print were white , often on a white background making them often hard to read , but i don't think there was a whole lot of meaning there that was lost .  - the title means " don't let me die on a sunday . " 
pos@ after being hypnotized , a man believes there is a ghost in his house .  the review  two low-key summer horror films have become surprise financial successes this year : the blair witch project and the sixth sense .  each has made well over $100 million in north america , based on a combination of strong word of mouth and clever advertising .  if a film's box office take were based primarily on its quality , stir of echoes would join blair and sense in grossing far more money than expected , for it is as scary , if not scarier than the other two .  writer/director david koepp has given artisan entertainment , the folks who distributed blair witch a second creepy hit .  the story gets going after tom witzky ( bacon ) , an average blue-collar dad , gets hypnotized by his wife maggie's ( erbe ) sister lisa ( douglas ) at a party .  while the hypnosis goes as expected to the party-goers , it triggers something in tom's head .  things begin to change around him ( blinking red lights let off a strange hum , for example ) , and he fights to stay in control of his own senses .  where these experiences take tom , maggie and their son jake ( cope ) , who tom thinks might have some answers , is down a dark path that will scare and disturb you .  david koepp keeps the action localized ; the majority of the action takes place at tom's house or just down the street .  by keeping things at home , koepp is able to proceed without having to resort to any clumsy segues ( montages of driving down roads as we move from one city to another etc . ) .  unfortunately , the dread and spookiness of stir of echoes are frequently interrupted by moments of levity .  humour can take the tension away from a scene faster than any shoddy special effect or poor acting .  several tense moments become completely diffused by a few misplaced jokes .  also , there are a couple of plot developments that are left unresolved , though to mention them would be to give too much away .  kevin bacon handles the duel task of playing an everyman and a man losing his sanity admirably .  his total lack of understanding of what is happening to him is believable , as are the reactions from his wife maggie .  kathryn erbe is given a role meatier and better written than that of most " wife who can no longer handle her husband " parts .  while it is still a supporting role , her maggie is moving as she watches both her husband and her son enter what she calls " a private club that i'm not invited to " , where they whisper about things all day long .  as jake , zachary cope equals the performance of haley joel osment in the sixth sense , but gets less screen time .  both children manage the same trick , making the audience creeped out by their apparent acceptance of the way things are .  fans of blair and sixth sense will almost surely love stir of echoes .  it combines the dread of blair , a creepy closed-in feel thanks to cinematographer fred murphy and great performances by the whole cast , specifically bacon , to give the fall its first genuine scary film .  if only they had let up on the unneeded funny bits and tweaked the plot a bit more , this could have been one of the year's best . 
neg@ back in february at the monthly los angeles comic book and science fiction convention , new line cinema put on a lavish presentation for its big-screen update of the cult 1960s sci-fi tv show lost in space , complete with in-person appearances by cast members mimi rogers , matt leblanc , lacey chabert , jack johnson , and even gary oldman .  that should have set off my warning alarms--the last time such an extravagant film presentation took place at the convention was nearly five years ago , when none other than arnold schwarzenegger made an in-person cameo to peddle . . .  last action hero .  but no , like millions of others , i bought into the hype and " got lost . "  if only i had gotten lost--literally--on the way to theatre and spared myself the tedium of this sloppily slapped-together blockbuster wannabe .  you may find yourself wondering if director stephen hopkins and screenwriter akiva goldsman were lost themselves when they made the film .  at the convention , goldsman claimed to be a rabid fan of the original television series , and if that really is the case , i'd hate to see what he does with concepts he only has mild interest in .  to say that his script lacks narrative cohesion is to imply that there is a narrative to begin with--which there most certainly is not .  after the setup , in which the robinson family--father john ( william hurt , looking and sounding as spaced out as he does in interviews ) , mother maureen ( rogers , wasted ) , daughters judy ( heather graham , ditto ) and penny ( a heavily made-up chabert , looking like a junior version of neve campbell in wild things ) , and son will ( young newcomer johnson , making the best of it ) --and pilot don west ( leblanc , doing a bad han solo impression ) find themselves lost in space after their ship is sabotaged by evil stowaway dr . smith ( a watered-down but still-lively oldman , cashing a paycheck and loving every minute ) , the script's " stream " of events becomes so fragmented and random that it seems to be made up as it goes along--and hopkins does little to make what does go on the slightest bit interesting .  they encounter another ship .  they board it .  alien spiders attack them .  they return to their ship .  the other one explodes .  they land on a deserted planet .  and so on .  an attempt at a plot involving time travel occurs in the third act , but goldsman doesn't seem to understand the rules that come with using such a story device ; when one character's past self dies , the future incarnation inexplicably lives on .  the look and effects should be lost in space's ace-in-the-hole , but hopkins even manages to botch that .  for a big-budget film , the visual effects are incredibly shoddy .  in one composite background shot , i could see the blue outline around oldman ; the various digital effects for the space battle scenes look like . . .  digital effects .  but nothing in those shots is as jaw-droppingly unconvincing as blawp , a monkey-like space creature that becomes penny's pet .  entirely computer-generated and every inch showing it , blawp looks like it was lifted directly from a sony playstation game .  apparently hopkins thought the same and tried desperately to hide it ; how else can one explain the graininess of blawp's composite shots with the human actors ?  but in doing so , the seams are that much more obvious .  you have to be severely visually impaired to not be distracted when a grainy shot of penny and blawp is immediately followed by a crystal-clear solo reaction shot of judy .  new line is hoping lost in space will become a big franchise much like the long-running star trek cash cow at paramount .  i don't think so .  in a few years , the lost in space movie will likely live on not as a series but as the obscure answer to a trivia question : what film ended titanic's 15-week reign at the top of the weekend box office ? 
pos@  " if there's a beast in men , it meets its match in women , too . "  starring sarah patterson , angela lansbury , tusse silberg , david warner directed by neil jordan written by jordan and angela carter , from a story by carter cinematography by bryan loftus  in recent years , there has been a trend in the field of fantasy : writers have been revisiting the fertile world of myth and fairy tale and reclaiming that world , investing it with new life and energy .  in modern times , fairy tales have become disneyfied and debased ; they have become trite adventures involving leering witches , friendly dwarves , and cuddly talking animals .  but in their original forms , fairy tales have a dark , wicked edge .  crows tear out the eyes of cinderella's sisters , a gorier fate then they receive in the animated version .  hansel and gretel relish cooking the witch in her own oven .  writers have become fascinated by the bloodier , morally ambivalent aspects of fairy tales , and are now modernizing the old stories while simultaneously going back to their roots .  before this trend was in vogue , angela carter--whose stories always have a dark , wicked , subversive edge--had been reinventing fairy tales for years .  in the company of wolves , she and neil jordan retell the story of red riding hood , enlivening it with werewolves , rolls royces , and a visit from satan .  the story is structured as a dream , occurring in the mind of rosaleen ( sarah patterson ) , an adolescent girl about whose 'real' life we learn very little .  within the dream , there are a number of inset stories , most told by dream-rosaleen's grandmother ( angela lansbury ) , and these tales gloss the central story in intriguing , suggestive ways .  the result is a surprisingly successful example of a sinister , contemporary fairy tale .  i say " surprisingly " because there are so many ways this film could have gone wrong .  and there are ways in which it does .  the performances are mediocre , except for lansbury's--she finds the right note for the prim , apple-cheeked granny , the wise and stern teller of cautionary tales .  the soundtrack , synth-heavy , reminded me of bad 80s horror movies , as did the special effects in the shapechanging scenes .  probably state-of-the-art at the time , they are now laughable .  but jordan succeeds at what i consider the trickiest aspect of the film : he transcends the poor acting/music/effects and conveys a sense of the fantastic , of otherness .  one of the problems in adapting full-blown fantasies is that fantasy is often best left to the imagination of the reader , rather than being subjected to the 'realism' of the screen .  part of me would love to see an adaptation of 'the lord of the rings , ' but , on the other hand , i know that any filmmaker's recreation of ents , hobbits , and balrogs is inevitably going to be really lame compared to what i picture in my mind .  this makes jordan's accomplishment here seem mighty impressive to me : he imbues the company of wolves with a genuine sense of magic and mystery .  the somewhat ruritanian dreamworld becomes a kind of ur-reality .  the sunshine is exceptionally warm and abundant .  the nights are quiet and misty and eerie and ghostly .  the peasant village is rustic and cozy , the woods old and hoary .  this archetypal realm is the setting for a smart , subtle , literate script , a script which is as good as you'd expect from jordan ( himself an accomplished fiction writer ) and carter .  for carter , the cauldron of story is a witches' brew , bubbling over with primal ingredients : mist-shrouded forests , ancient graveyards , virginal girls and wise women , wolves with glowing eyes .  she adeptly blends them all together .  there is a symbolic richness to the film ; everything is permeated with a sense of significance .  the point of it all , i think , is to represent a girl's rites-of-passage on an unconscious , primordial level .  a night-journey through the forest , from the village to the grandmother's home , is the crux of the company of wolves .   " don't stray from the path , " rosaleen is told , again and again , and the path is both literal and figurative : the path through the forest and the path of life .  staying on the path is the conventional approach suggested by rosaleen's elders .  carter and jordan , never conventional , explore what goes on when you leave the path .  those who stray will supposedly meet with a dark fate .  this fate is literalized in the dream as werewolves , but the werewolves connote many things : death , sex , knowledge .  if straying from the path leads to death , then it's not a good idea--but if that's what you have to risk to get sex and knowledge ( and therefore power ) , then maybe it's worth the risk .  when you leave the path , the world becomes a dangerous , ambiguous place , but it's full of potential .  and it's certainly more interesting than the disney version . 
neg@ whether you like the beatles or not , nobody wants to see the bee gee's take on some of the fab four's best known songs .  well , maybe that's not true .   .   .  maybe you're curious , the way you have to look in your hanky after you blow your nose .  you just have to know how bad bad can be .  if that's the case , rejoice , because it was twenty years ago today ( or so ) that sgt .  pepper's lonely hearts club band was released ( unleashed ? ) to the world , and thanks to our modern technological advances , you can find this retched piece of filmmaking on vhs .  derived from the lyrics of various beatles' songs , sgt .  pepper's tells the story of the fictitious band made popular from the song ( and album ) of the same name , released in 1967 .  of course , the movie was made eleven years later , the gibbs three have become the lonely hearts , peter frampton is the one and only billy shears , and aside from being about a rock band , the story doesn't correlate to the song at all .  and oh , what joy - we're the lovely audience they'd like to take home with them .  i don't think so .  but at least these characters are actually * people * in a beatles' song , whereas other characters such as strawberry fields ( sandy farina ) gets her name from a song about a * place * called strawberry fields .  the debate over this is really quite futile when it comes down to it , because all the film really has to offer is a feast of horrid cover tunes , embarrassing cameo appearances ( george burns ? !  steve martin ? ! ?  alice cooper ? ! ? ! ) , and uuuuuuggggggglllllllyyyyy 70's fashion and faces .  check please !  the plot is a bit unclear .  people with bad 70's hair run around in leisure suits engaging in music video sequences that look like a sick and twisted world of make-believe from an overly demented mr . rogers .  mean mr . mustard ( frankie howerd ) somehow gets hold of all billy & co . 's instruments , calling dr . maxwell edison ( steve martin with a silver hammer and an out-of-key singing voice ) , the sun king , marvin sunk ( alice cooper ! ) , and a couple of creepy robots to his aid .  supposedly this is a horrible thing ?  i guess in heartland , the talent is pretty non-existent .  meanwhile , the lonely hearts are off doing the classic " sex , drugs , and rock n' roll " thing , leaving poor strawberry fields without her true love , billy .  she sets out to find him , leaving her poor dad and mom ( mrs .  fields !  hey , wanna cookie ? )  all alone to sing a horrible rendition of " she's leaving home " , accompanied by those same creepy robots .  but is billy getting it on with lucy ( dianne steinberg ) ?  ya know , the diamond possessing girl who hangs out in the sky ?  well , there's some crazy chick singing soprano on the roof of a building next to a bus stop , and i assume that's who it was .  it's movies like this that make ya sit back and ask the unanswerable question , " what the hell were they thinking ? ? ? "  nobody will ever know , but as a novelty , sgt .  pepper's is one to examine .  carol channing , robert palmer , keith carradine - they're all here .  but why ? ? ? ?  who knows .  it's irrelevant .  there's as much meaning to be found here as there is to be found in your belly-button lint , although the latter may be more interesting .  with the recent onslaught of 70's nostalgia in the movie world ( the ice storm , boogie nights , reissues of the star wars trilogy , etc . ) , let's pray this doesn't get a special 20th anniversary , second-chance in theaters .  in the words of paul mccartney , live and let die .  in fact , bury this one while you still can . 
pos@ cinematically speaking , gordon parks' original 1971 _shaft_ is not a great film .  a bit slow at times and more than a little rough around the edges as it builds to its climactic explosion of violent action , this spirited but formulaic yarn that initially brought ernest tidyman's " black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks " to the big screen hardly qualifies as groundbreaking filmmaking .  yet nearly 30 years after its original release--and long after the genre it spawned , " blaxploitation , " died with that decade--the 1971 _shaft_ remains an extremely entertaining watch , never having completely escaped pop culture consciousness .  the reason for this is the same one that explains the film's connection with moviegoers far beyond the target african-american audience : the title character of john shaft .  while the fact that the strong , smart , virile , and superbly suave shaft is black is the primary factor for his historical and cultural significance , his broad-based appeal stems from an idea that transcends race : he is comfortable , confident , and proud about who he is , and anyone who had a problem with that could simply kiss his ass .  this fact also explains why john singleton's y2g revival of john shaft is as enjoyable as it is .  much like the film that started the franchise , this _shaft_'s plot doesn't score points in the originality department , but the energy level and smooth attitude distinguishes it from standard crime thrillers .  contrary to what has been reported over the past few months , this _shaft_ is not a remake of the original film , but more of a sequel/spinoff .  the star audiences know and love from the original film and its first two sequels ( 1972's _shaft's_big_score ! _ and 1973's _shaft_in_africa_ ) , richard roundtree , once again plays john shaft , who still runs a private investigation firm in new york city .  however , the focus of the film lies on his same-named nephew ( samuel l . jackson ) , who , as the film begins , is a cop whose take-no-crap demeanor constantly leaves him at odds with his superiors .  when a privileged young man named walter wade jr . ( christian bale ) accused of a brutal , racially-motivated murder is allowed to be released on bail , a disgusted shaft leaves the force and decides to take matters into his own hands as a p . i .  but that's easier said than done , for also standing in the way of shaft and his way of justice is peoples hernandez ( jeffrey wright ) , a dominican gangster who is hired by walter to rub out waitress diane palmieri ( toni collette ) , the only eyewitness to his crime .  peoples--or , rather , wright is also the big obstacle in jackson's way toward commanding this film .  peoples is more of an outrageous comic character for most of the running time , and wright is insanely funny during these stages .  however , he isn't so funny as to make the character come off as goofy and buffoonish , and peoples' eventual turn to more serious villainy is seamless and believable ( which probably would not have been the case had he been played by original casting choice john leguizamo , who bowed out before filming ) .  it's no easy task to steal a film from the jackson ( who is his usual captivating , charismatic self here ) , but that's exactly what wright does--and makes it seem effortless .  then again , with such a talented ensemble surrounding him , it is not too surprising that jackson's impressive star turn doesn't quite tower over the rest ; he is strongly complemented not only by wright but all his other co-stars .  bale has already proven his ability to play an uppity killer in _american_psycho_ , so it only follows that his performance as a similar , less exaggerated character would be spot-on .  collette lends the film some convincing and welcome dramatic weight as the frightened , conflicted diane .  busta rhymes brings some good laughs as shaft's sidekick rasaan .  registering not as strongly--but through no fault of their own--are vanessa williams ( as tough narcotics cop carmen vasquez ) and a dismayingly underused roundtree ; they simply are given little to do in the script credited to richard price , singleton , and shane salerno .   ( jackson also has little to " do " in a sense ; some throwaway footage during the opening credits aside , his shaft doesn't even have one sex scene . )  that singleton once again proves his ability with actors is an especially good thing since he's not really an action director .  this is not to say that he does a bad job with the numerous gunfights and the requisite foot and car chases .  they move well ( as does the film as a whole ) and are reasonably exciting ; it's just that there's nothing terribly inventive about them .  these set pieces are functional in the way the script is : they work well enough , but they're unsurprising and conventional .  but if there's anything that a _shaft_ movie does well , it's make the familiar look cool--and this _shaft_ keeps that tradition alive .  from the slick title sequence--scored , of course , to isaac hayes' ever-infectious oscar-winning theme song , which singleton wisely sprinkles throughout the film--on , the film looks great and easily sweeps the viewer into its world with its energetic bravado .  even a common visual trick such as employing fancy wipes for scene transitions not only feels unforced , it feels necessary .  style doesn't exactly make for a great film , but when it comes to _shaft_ , that's of little consequence .  what matters above all else is having a good time , and the latest _shaft_ should be just the first of many fun rides to be had with this bad mutha--shut your mouth . 
neg@ the formula is simple .  trap a varied group of people on an isolated location , then pop in a seemingly unstoppable monster to kill them one by one .  these have been the successful ingredients for many good films ( the thing , alien , aliens , and tremors to name a few ) .  so , why is it that so many films following this recipe end up pathetically bad ?   ( see the relic for a particularly putrid example . )  perhaps it is simply too easy to forget the necessary binding ingredient : effort and ideas .  deep rising meets these two requirements part way , but not enough to salvage the film .  treat williams is finnegan , the leader of a small boat crew who hire out their services ( and their boat ) for any activity . . . no  questions asked .  this time , however , they may have gone too far .  their passengers , led by the ominous wes studi , are the type of multi-national terrorist squads usually only seen in die hard films .  and their cargo . . . let's  just say it has very high explosive potential .  what is the target of these thieves ?  why , the argonauticus , of course , a high tech luxury cruise yacht on its maiden voyage .  but something else is hunting the argonauticus . . . something  ancient and deadly .  by the time the thieves arrive , nearly everyone on board the ship has been killed .  and now the creature senses fresh meat !  so , you have the thieves and their mercenary boat crew , joining forces with the surviving passengers ( including the ship owner canton ( anthony heald ) , and a thief with less lofty goals , trillian ( famke janssen ) ) against the terror from the deep .  and the monster gets to pick them off one by one .  fortunately for the creature , this particular band of criminals happens to be the dumbest the world can offer .  why else would they indulge in petty squabbling while they watch their friends become fish food .  if there's a more clarion call for unity , i don't know what it might be .  it's pretty easy to guess who will get killed off when .  there are no surprises in that the most interesting characters seem to last until the end .  for the most part , the watery tentacles seem to be acting on the audience's impulses to get rid of the most boring characters first .   ( although i wonder if the filmmakers might have extended djimon hounsou's life a bit if they knew this would be released so soon after his acclaim for amistad . )  treat williams is a passable hero , and famke janssen does her best julia roberts impersonation .  but while wes studi and anthony heald are particularly slimy , very little of the rest of the company stand out in any way .  the biggest treat in the film , however , has to be pantucci , kevin j . o'connor's whining engine-boy , under finnegan's employ .  his constant quips may be a bit over-written , but they manage to capture the same vein of nerve-addled humor that bill paxton delivered as hudson in aliens ( or todd graff as hippie in the abyss , for that matter ) .  it's just a stock part ( the comic-relief character ) , but it almost makes this tired alien clone bearable .  as far as the monster goes , although the cgi is done well , the creature has no logical consistency .  think back to the great ( or even just good ) movie monsters .  they all had a set of " rules " about what they could do , and how and why they would do it .  part of the joy of those films was slowly discovering , along with the heroes , just what those rules are .  the tentacle monster in deep rising doesn't have a set of rules . . .  or if it does , not a very good one .  it merely eats ( or drinks , as the case may be ) , and there is no rhyme or reason for what it does in order to do so .  the film never explains why the argonauticus is attacked in the first place .  it simply happens .  the action scenes are decent , but few are noteworthy .  the film definitely does suffer from its proximity to titanic .  deep rising's peril in the water scenes pale next to cameron's ( but can you really blame them ) .  unfortunately , deep rising's efforts are more on par with speed 2 .  on the plus side , however , the film's closing image shows some promise for a potentially interesting ( but unlikely ) sequel .  perhaps you'd be better off waiting for that one . 
pos@ earth is a harsh , unconsoling drama about the time when india gained independence from britain and the ensuing turmoil that engulfed the subcontinent .  people who supposedly loved the same land and the same god found themselves in bitter conflict , as the country divided into factions fighting in the streets : indian and pakistani ; muslim , hindu , sikh , parsee .  the story takes place in lahore , which was indian before partition , and pakistani afterward , regardless of what its citizens might call themselves .  the action is seen through the eyes of lenny ( maaia sethna ) , a young parsee girl , but it is really about her nanny , shanta .  shanta has a small circle of male admirers .  two of the men are suitors : hasan ( rahul khanna ) , a hindu , and dil navaz ( aamir khan ) , a muslim .  the others--sikh , hindu , muslim--are older ; some are married ; but all appreciate shanta , who is played by the stirringly beautiful nandita das .   ( she also starred in deepa mehta's previous film , fire , the first part of a thematic trilogy which will conclude with water . )  in an early scene , the men are sitting in a park talking with shanta and lenny ; political tension in the country is growing as the day of independence nears .  one of the men remarks , jokingly , that their little group is probably one of the last places in the city where the different religions can still get along .  he is wrong : the men make barbed little comments to each other , spoken like jokes , but with an undercurrent of fanaticism .  the tenor of these exchanges grows darker and more bitter as the movie progresses .  it is easy to perceive , in these squabbles , the trajectory which ends in mass violence and slaughter .  the group around shanta represents , in a sense , a united india , and shanta herself the ideal motherland--one which all love , which inspires hindu , muslim , and sikh to live peacably together .  but the circle around shanta is sundered , as is the state .  a sikh is persecuted , hides , then flees .  another man is murdered .  the group of friends will not meet again .  the movie is rife with images of breakage and destruction : a plate shattered on the floor , a stuffed toy torn apart by an upset child , and , most brutally , when the tension escalates into violence , a man is held down , tied between two cars , and ripped in half by the opposing movement of the vehicles .  it is a visceral and effective metaphor for a country which is being destroyed just as painfully .  the crux of earth's plot is the transformation undergone by dil navaz .  his sisters are killed in brutal fashion , by hindus , because they are muslim .  dil navaz seeks solace from shanta , and asks in desperation that she marry him .  but she loves hasan , and tenderly refuses dil navaz's offer .  the combination of familial anguish and romantic rejection twists inside him , and it is easy to see how he is seduced by the growing mob mentality : the muslim cause gives him a motive to vent his anger and hate .  despite the things he later does , it is to the credit of earth that it does not simply denounce dil navaz and those like him , but shows how circumstances can make decent enough men do monstrous things .  the conclusion--the consequence of dil navaz's transformation--is rather abrupt .  the story earth tells does not end .  it just stops .  it is an appropriate finish : giving us closure would have imparted , at least on an aesthetic level , a sense of resolution , of satisfaction .  but there was no resolution for india and pakistan--they have been at war , on a small or large scale , for decades .  since the personal dramas in earth mirror the political struggles of a nation , it is only right that those dramas should have no terminus .  there is no healing to be had , no closure , on any level ( despite the needless , tacked-on ending , with voice-over narration from lenny as an adult , framing the story ) .  earth is , in some ways , an unexceptional movie .  it does not reinvent the wheel , following instead the standard pattern of historical dramas .  but deepa mehta's directon is assured , and the issues she addresses run deep .  earth does for india what movies like zhang yimou's to live and tian zhuangzhuang's the blue kite did for china : they show us the agonies endured by unremarkable people who had the bad luck to be caught up and smashed in the crucible of history .  such films strike me as inherently valuable , even when flawed .  they may be biased or inaccurate , but they bear the weight of human hardship , and this confers on them a nobility and gravity which other , more inventive films , often lack .  it is notable that all three movies were banned in their native countries : the events shown may have happened decades ago , but they still touch a nerve .  the issues tackled in earth have a particular urgency in light of the nuclear test bombings that took place last year .  in the near future , india and pakistan may launch nuclear missiles at each other .  at the time of the tests i had some understanding of the reasons why this might happen ; after seeing earth , i have a much , much better understanding . 
neg@ this movie tries to present itself as the sequel to jan de bont's debut as a director , 1994 surprise hit speed .  but the only thing the two movies have in common is sandra bullock as the female lead .  annie ( sandra bullock ) is in the wrong place at the wrong time again .  she's going on a cruise with her new boy-friend alex ( jason patric ) , and of course it is her ship that is kidnapped by john geiger ( willem dafoe ) who has a bone to pick with the shipping line .  they sacked him after he got sick .  now he wants the diamonds stored in the ship's safe for compensation .  that actually is the whole storyline .  speed 2 could do without dialogues .  the movie is all about images and remarkable sound .  i don't really know why this is called an action movie .  except for a few scenes that are vaguely reminiscent of speed this goes along the lines of the desaster movies of the 70ies .  first we are introduced to a number of people who are going to be important later on in the movie .  then desaster strikes .  sandra bullock was said to have been glad that she could take action this time around .  i looked for the " action " but couldn't find it .  most of the time she is part of the decoration .  the only time she is part of what happens is when she can have a shot at defusing a bomb and freeing some passengers trapped behind a fire door .  now we know that she can handle a chain saw .  we also know that fire doors on cruise ships can be cut apart in seconds .  the bomb defusal of course goes wrong , but only the furniture is damaged , not our heroes who still are needed .  jason patric alias alex spends most of his time flirting with annie , helping other passengers and frolicking in the water .  his initial sea-sickness is suddenly gone , because there are ship , crew and passengers to be saved from evil geiger .  he does a pretty good job but i can't blame keanu reeves for declining this part .  then there's willem dafoe , the villain , who desperately tries to look as frightening as frankenstein's monster .  he doesn't succeed , though .  an untidy appearance isn't enough to convince the viewer of his psychopath potential .  before he tries again to make us believe he is a dangerous man he should practise for a while in front of a mirror .  i can't really recommend speed 2 . you will probably like the movie if you like funny situations that aren't meant to be funny .  especially the showdown , when the ship first runs into an oil tanker and then dissembles a whole village is a treat .  there you get to see the most superfluous scene in the movie .  in keeping with last year's desaster movie tradition a dog is miraculously saved from certain death .  a really funny ( and meant to be funny ) scene takes place on the oil tanker right before the collision .  some crew members watch two ships colliding in an old movie .  had they looked out the window they wouldn't have missed the huge ship racing toward them .  those of you who still want to see the movie should pick a theater with a large screen and a good sound system to enjoy the visual effects and the phantastic surround sound effects .  in an adequately equipped theater it's as if the explosion were going off all around you and you can feel the seats vibrate .  but the ilm special effects can't save the movie .  for all the money they could have done better . 
pos@ there is nothing like american history x in theaters or on video .  no other feature film takes such a cold hard look at the lure , the culture , and the brotherhood of white supremacy .  nice guy ed norton jr . ( who sang in everyone says i love you ) plays derek , a twenty-year old skinhead .  dad's subtle racism grew large in derek , after gang members killed his father .  dad was fighting a fire when they shot him .  now derek keeps his head shaved and has a giant swastika tattooed over his heart .  derek is more interested in the ideas of white supremacy than in its culture of violence .  at a basketball court , black and white tempers flare .  derek channels the aggression into a game , black versus white , for ownership of the courts .  when the choice presents itself , derek goes for game point instead of the sucker-punch .  cameron ( stacy keach ) steps in to derek's life as a surrogate father .  he takes derek under his wing and nurtures his racist feelings .  keeping his own criminal record spotless , he uses derek as a leader and organizer for high-visibility racial intimidation .  derek obliges by leading his younger and dumber friends in race-motivated mob crimes .  at the bottom of the chain , derek's younger brother danny ( edward furlong , made famous in terminator 2 ) joins the skinheads not for ideological or intellectual reasons , but because he admires his brother and he wants to belong .  one night three black youths break into derek's truck , which is exactly what derek has been waiting for .  outside in his shorts and his tattoo , he shoots them all .  the third would-be thief , unarmed , is only wounded .  in the key scene of the film , derek commands the kid into a position where he can be killed with one glorious , enraptured , awful stomp .   ( the fun-spoiling nc-17 of orgazmo seems even more inappropriate , considering american history x was rated r . what sort of country is this that says sex comedies are a bigger threat to our youth than brutal , ecstatic violence ? )  the police arrive just as derek kills the last thief .  derek does not resist the cops , and as they spin him around to cuff him , the film slows down .  derek raises his eyebrows and smiles at his little brother in a chilling , sadistic , satisfied grin .  now in prison , derek faces new challenges .  as the black man in the laundry tells him , " in the joint , you the nigra , not me . "  there is a clique of swastika-wearing skinheads , but they are not interested in the ideology of white supremacy .  they only use the symbols as a means of intimidation .  derek finds himself truly alone , truly in danger , and truly afraid .  when derek finally gets out of prison , he finds that his friends from the gang have also changed .  without derek's leadership , they have shunned the white supremacist ideology for the white supremacist culture .  it is the final factor that makes him realize how badly he's screwed up .  in the end , he spends quality time with is brother trying to undo the respect and admiration he had earlier inspired in danny .  the film ends a little too deliberately , too neatly after the unchained emotion and violent glee of the rest of the film , but it barely detracts from the overall experience .  edward norton gives an oscar-worthy performance .  although some of his dialogue seemed to be written without enough conviction , norton's performance compensated .   ( an example that comes to mind is his pep talk before looting the store . )  he also captured the essence of an older brother .  he took his responsibility as a role model to his younger brother very seriously , very lovingly , both before and after his change of heart .  though clearly not for all tastes , this film is bold and daring .  the subject matter is ugly , cruel , and at times hard to look at .  nevertheless its subjects are part of humanity's great face .  kaye gives us a good look at this fascinating , if distasteful , american subculture . 
neg@ lucas was wise to start his star wars trilogy with episode 4 : episode 1 is a boring , empty spectacle that features some nice special effects .  after the familiar 'a long time ago . . . . '  opening , the film starts with the opening yellow crawl that features in every star wars movie and computer game .  the plot is that the trade confederation are blocking off supplies to the peaceful planet of naboo , ruled by queen amidala ( portman ) jedi knights qui-gon ( neeson ) and obi wan ( mcgregor ) are sent to negotiate a deal with the confederation to stop the blockade .  however , this simple blockade is not all it seems , and the jedi knights soon have to deal with many more dangers , including facing the evil darth maul ( ray park . )  they also meet the future darth vadar , anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd )  star wars is largely a failure in all the major areas of filmmaking : script , direction and characters .  the script desperately tries to make an thin and boring story into a two hour epic .  the trade confederation plot is just not as exciting as the death star , and as the film goes on the drama becomes more and more non-existent .  there's no underlying tension , and no urgent need to see what the outcome is .  the film also takes a leisurely pace in telling the boring story , which doesn't help .  there's no snap to make the film work , it moves at a plod .  the script is boring : all the characters speak in morals , especially anakins mother .  there's no group spirit evident here , and when all characters can speak only in profound statements or bark orders , it's evident that not much is going to happen .  the two leads are hideously boring , static characters given little to do and too much time to do it .  qui-gon and obi-wan hold no presence on film , and give little for the audience to root for .  the audience will probably warm more to bad guy darth maul , if he had been given more screen time .  maul is one of the most underused bad guys in film history , even if he does provide the only 'straight' plot line in the film ( all the other plots in this film are to be concluded throughout the trilogy . )  anakin is annoying and unlikeable . ,  instead of cute and huggable as lucas no doubt intended .  it's probably not surprising that his hateful little boy , unfortunately blessed 'ani' by everyone he knows , joins the dark side and kills everyone as quickly as possible .  the comedy relief is supposedly provided by the gangly jar jar brinks , although in the end none is provided in the film by him .  although his floppy features will no doubt be great for stuffed toys , the lines and actions he is given are painfully unfunny .  the only good laugh is when his tongue is burned by a 'pod' racer , because i knew he wouldn't be able to talk for a while .  queen amidala is a nothing in the film , she serves no real purpose apart from the fact that she must 'serve her people , ' and go goo-goo over anakin .  again , her role will become more important in the later episodes , and is given little to do here .  the actors don't help the movie much either .  liam neeson seems bored and embarrassed , and seems desperate to leave the movie as quickly as possible .  mcgregor comes across as a posh mothers boy , with little charm .  the casting director must have chose him because he's scottish like alec guinness : there's little other explanation for it .  natalie portman is plagued by hideous costumes and a poor script , but she delivers a spunky performance .  and jake lloyd looks at everyone with hateful eyes and delivers his lines in a bored voice .  there's very little talent evident with him , it's hard to see why lucas chose him when there are better child actors out there .  he's not even very 'cute . '  the main claim of the film , the special effects , are okay .  there's nothing impressive about them , yet they complement the story well .  the cgi takes away much of the human element , however .  the battle droids for example , the replacement for the stormtroopers , are characterless little computer graphics , lacking the humour and humanness that came from the stormtroopers .  episode 1 is just disappointing .  it's got high production values , but little else .  the music is meandering , except near the end .  the plot gives us no-one to root for , or even care for .  the effects are nice , but dull .  the plot goes on for half an hour longer than it should .  there's an air of manufacturing among the whole sorry affair , and many clich ? s are catered for throughout the film .  apart from a remotely exciting pod race sequence , episode 1 is a dry affair that serves little purpose , except to make money and to get us to watch episode 2 to see what happens to the many unfinished plot lines in the film .  disappointing is barely the word .  rating= 
pos@ in the opening shot of midnight cowboy , we see a close-up of a blank movie screen at a drive-in .  we hear in the soundtrack human cries and the stomping of horses' hooves .  without an image projected onto the screen , the audience unerringly identifies the familiar sound of cowboys chasing indians and can spontaneously fill in the blank screen with images of old westerns in our mind's eye .  even without having seen a cowboys and indians movie , somehow the cliched images of them seem to have found their way into our mental schema .  but do cowboys really exist , or are they merely hollywood images personified by john wayne and gary cooper ?  exploring this theme , director john schlesinger uses the idea of the cowboy as a metaphor for the american dream , an equally cliched yet ambiguous concept .  is the ease at which salvation and success can be attained in america a hallmark of its experience or an urban legend ?  midnight cowboy suggests that the american dream , like image of the cowboy , is merely a myth .  as joe buck migrates from place to place , he finds neither redemption nor reward in his attempt to create a life for himself , only further degeneration .  during the opening credits , joe walks past an abandoned theater whose decrepit marquee reads `john wayne : the alamo . '  as joe is on the bus listening to a radio talk show , a lady on the air describes her ideal man as `gary cooper ? but he's dead . '  a troubled expression comes across joe's face , as he wonders where have all the cowboys gone .  having adopted the image of a cowboy since youth , joe now finds himself deserted by the persona he tried to embody .  joe's persistence in playing the act of the cowboy serves as an analogue to his american dream .  he romanticizes about making it in the big city , but his dreams will desert him as he is forced to compromise his ideals for sustenance .  by the end of midnight cowboy , joe buck loses everything and gains nothing .  just as the audience can picture cowboys chasing indians on a blank screen , we can also conjure up scenes from pretty woman as paradigms of american redemption and success .  but how realistic are these ideals ?  joe had raped and been raped in texas .  the scars of his troubled past prompt him to migrate to new york , but he does not know that his aspirations to be a cowboy hero will fail him there just as they had in texas .  alongside the dream of success is the dream of salvation .  the ability to pack up one's belongings and start anew seems to be an exclusive american convention .  schlesinger provides us with strong hints as to joe's abusive and abused past with flashbacks of improper relationships with crazy anne and granny .  we understand that joe adopts the fa ? ade of a cowboy , a symbol of virility and gallantry , as an attempt to neutralize his shame .  he runs from his past only to be sexually defiled this time by his homosexual experiences in new york .  in the scene at the diner which foreshadows joe's encounter with the gay student , joe buck spills ketchup on himself .  standing up , we see the ketchup has made a red stain running from the crotch of his pants down his thigh .  schlesinger visually depicts the degeneration of joe's virility by eliciting an image of bleeding genitals , signifying emasculation .  beyond the symbol of castration , the scene may also connote the bleeding of a virgin's first sexual encounter , a reference to joe's first homosexual liaison .  the fact that the idea of a bleeding virgin is relegated only to females furthers the imagery of joe's emasculation .  it is ironic that joe has trouble prospecting for female clients , but effortlessly attracts men .  joe believes his broncobuster getup is emblematic of his masculinity ; new yorkers see his ensemble as camp and `faggot stuff . '  there are two predominant images of new york .  the first is that new york is the rich , cosmopolitan city where hope and opportunity are symbolized by the tall skyscrapers and the statue of liberty .  the other new york is travis bickle's new york , a seedy , corruptive hell on earth .  joe envisions new york as the former , but is presented with the latter .  mirroring the irony in which joe envisions his cowboy attire as masculine , he mistakenly buys into the fable that new york is filled with lonely women neglected by gay men .  joe thinks he is performing a great service for new york , but the city rapes him of his pride and possessions .  the people steal joe's money , the landlord confiscates his luggage , and the homosexuals rob him of his dignity .  what has become of joe's american dream ?  schlesinger responds to this question with the scene at the party .  joe gets invited to a shindig of sorts and at the gathering is exposed to a dizzying array of food , drugs , and sex .  at the party , all of joe and ratzo's desires are made flesh ; joe flirts successfully with women and ratzo loads up on free salami .  contrasting joe's daily struggles , shots of warhol's crew display wanton indulgence .  there is an irreverence in the partygoers' attitude ; we see a shot of a woman kowtowing to nothing in particular , orgies breaking out in the periphery , and drugs passed around like party favors .  the party makes a mockery of joe' s ideals .  joe believed that hard work and persistence were the elements for success in america ; scenes of the party and his rendezvous with shirley suggest that it is the idle who profit from joe's toils .  the american dream , schlesinger suggests , is merely a proletarian fantasy , for those who are content no longer dream , but become indolent .  as joe heads to miami , all that was significant of the cowboy image has left him .  his masculinity is compromised and his morality is relinquished .  for joe , nothing is left of the cowboy hero and commensurately , he surrenders the identity .  tossing his boots into the garbage , he returns to the bus for the last leg of his journey to miami .  the final shot of midnight cowboy shows joe inside the bus , more introspective , taking only a few glances outside the window .  instead of the frequent pov shots of joe excitedly looking out of the bus on his way to new york , schlesinger sets up this final shot from the exterior of the bus looking in through the window at joe .  reflections of the palm trees ratzo so raved about run across the bus' window with joe hardly taking notice .  the scenery of miami no longer exacts the same excitement from joe as before .  the world seems smaller to joe now ; the termination of his journey coincides with the termination of his american dream .  no longer does joe aspire to be the enterprising gigolo ; he resolves to return to a normal job and resign to basic means .  midnight cowboy presents two familiar incarnations of the american dream .  there is the frontier fantasy that if you are brave enough to repel a few indians , you can set up a ranch out west and raise a beautiful family .  then there is the jay gatsby dream that a man of humble stock , with perseverance , can make a fortune in the big city .  joe's attempt to realize these dreams robs him of his innocence in texas and morality in new york .  during his search for an intangible paradise , joe ends up raping a girl and killing a man .  an allegory of chasing the promise of the american dream , joe buck's progressive moral atrophy is a warning against the pursuit of illusory icons . 
neg@ i think we should , as responsible citizens , all get together and stop jim carrey from making another movie .  he's changing the cinema as we know it--and for the worst .  i would willingly rewatch batman and robin rather then again sit through this miserable collection of filmic moments--prologues , epilogues , etc . the premise : a lawyer can't lie for a day .  ho , ho .  normally a movie made from this premise would be terrible--mr .  carrey suceeds in making it unwatchable .  i laughed once--and i was laughing at the sight of everyone else laughing .  grinding doesn't begin to describe .  it pounds on your head so forcefully and so unstoppably that , if you are a normal person , you leave feeling sick .  when it's not trying to be funny , it's trying to be melodramatic--but it's just annoying , stupid and sappy .  at best .  this movie is intended to make people laugh , yes , not to be voted best picture of all time by sight and sound .  but , it fails on every possible level .  it fails to be funny .  it fails to be insightful .  it fails to be suspensful .  it fails to be fun .  they should pay people to see it .  it suceeds on one level--it makes me want to get down on the ground and start thanking orson welles , for having lived .  if you go in with the intention of coming out alive , please make sure that you are overly fond of boob , fart , pimple and fat jokes--otherwise you will go insane .  yes , literally insane .  stark , raving mad .  it is boring , stupid , melodramatic and in the end ugly .  i reccemond it strongly .  to ed wood . 
pos@  " very bad things , " is the most delightfully morbid film of the year , a movie that goes so far over the deep end with its outrageousness and violence that i couldn't help but be won over by the material .  the film starts off with five friends leaving their homes in los angeles for a bachelor party in las vegas .  the groom-to-be is kyle fisher ( jon favreau ) , who is about to be married to the controlling , wedding-obsessed laura ( cameron diaz ) .  the other friends are real estate agent robert boyd ( christian slater ) , quiet charles ( leland orser ) , and brothers , michael ( jeremy piven ) and family man adam ( daniel stern ) .  after a wild night of gambling , boozing , and drugs , a stripper ( carla scott ) who was paid for by robert comes into their hotel room , but after a freak accident , to everyone's terror , she is killed .  as robert puts it : " there are two options : go to the police and go to prison , or bury her out in the desert where no one will ever find her . "  after a security guard enters into the hotel room unexpectantly and sees the body , robert is forced to kill him as well .   " okay , there is only one option now .  you can forget about calling the police , " he says .  by the time the five friends return home and as the wedding draws nearer , most of them are overcome with guilt , which sets off an even more elaborate series of event , that includes much , much more murder , double-crosses , and the inevitable wedding from hell .   " very bad things , " which is actor peter berg's feature film directing debut , is the shockingly perverse and wicked comedy that , " there's something about mary , " wanted to be .  it pulls out all the stops to create something fresh , original , and hilarious , even if that requires surprisingly graphic violence , gore , and a slew of truly hateful characters that all get what they deserve by the end .  the screenplay , also written by berg , is , to put it mildly , very funny and courageous .  during the second act of the film , some of the fun was beginning to slightly dwindle due to so much death , which was beginning to undermine the humor , but it eventually recouped itself with a climax that has to be seen to be believed .  the dialogue is edgy and inventive , and this film proves that a movie doesn't necessarily require likable character to be extremely enjoyable .  there's more fun , i think , in showing ignorable people getting their just desserts .  cameron diaz gives her best performance to date here , and has a lot of fun in playing the hateful laura , who eventually turns out to be more crazy than any of the five male friends .  diaz puts so much overblown energy to her character that i really do think she deserves a supporting actress oscar nomination come next january .  by the time she is beating someone to death with a coat hanger , and reciting lines like , " stuff him in the crapper and get your ass upstairs , " i couldn't help but crack up at how " balls-to-the-wall " this film had become .  jeanne tripplehorn creates another character original , as daniel stern's wife , who late in the picture , we discover , is a tough kick-boxer that should not be messed around with .  it is at this level that , " very bad things , " was so entertaining and surprising .  just when you thought you could predict what was going to happen , there would be a little twist involving the characters that would be absolutely wacky .  the last sequence was perfect and managed to go even further over-the-top .  although i enjoyed the film immensely , let me make this clear : " very bad things , " is not a movie for everyone .  it is more tasteless than anything i have ever seen , it is more violent and bloody than a r-rated film usually is , and it is offensive .  luckily , these are elements that i would prefer in a comedy , since it clearly shows the filmmakers were set on making a no-holds-barred , politically incorrect comedy .  the fact that this film slipped through the cracks of the usually mainstream and " safe " wide-releases coming out lately , still gives me hope for the hollywood film industry . 
neg@ long time buddies and neil diamond tribute band members wayne ( steve zahn , " happy , texas " ) and j . d . ( jack black , " high fidelity " ) watch in horror as third mate darren silverman ( jason biggs , " american pie " ) disappears under the thumb of his new fiance judith , ( amanda peet , " the whole nine yards " ) a controlling psychiatrist .  they're doubly troubled when the return of darren's 'one and only love' sandy perkins ( amanda detmer , " final destination " ) returns to their home town but doesn't cause a ripple in darren's devotion to judith .  there's only one thing wayne and j . d . can think of doing - they kidnap judith and fake her death in " saving silverman . "  written by hank nelken and greg depaul after seeing a friend engaged to the wrong woman , " saving silverman " is directed by 'hit comedy director' dennis dugan of such films as " big daddy , " " brain donors " and " problem child . "  it's a dismal , third-rate farrelly brothers rip off that attempts to milk humor from such inspired bits of whimsy as having darren's love interest come from a family of circus freaks and be about to become a nun .  gross out gags include a visualization of darren getting butt cheek implants .   " saving silverman " is almost saved by stars zahn and black .  these two are so comically talented they can take bad material and still deliver the goods .  they're in " animal house " mode while the rest of the film trawls along and comes up empty .  jason biggs can attribute his entire career to the luck of having been cast in the smash hit " american pie . "  peet shows some physical moves but no flair for comedy here while detmer slaps a brave , sweet smile onto her face and soldiers through .  r . lee ermey ( " full metal jacket " ) is one note in an embarrassing performance as a psychopathic ex-football coach .  neil diamond appears at the film's climax as himself and miraculously enlivens the proceedings by belting out some of his old standards . 
pos@ when i first heard that romeo & juliet had been " updated " i shuddered .  i thought that yet another of shakespeare's classics had been destroyed .  fortunately , i was wrong .  baz luhrman has directed an " in your face " , and visually stunning piece with this film .  it revolves around the two rival families , who in this version each run multi-million dollar enterprises .  these rival companies/families are the capulet's and the montague's .  the younger generation of these two families have formed gangs , who despise one another .  as the storylines goes , romeo montague ( played by leonardo dicaprio ) and juliet capulet ( claire danes ) meet at a fancy dress party , and it is love at first site .  i never believed love at first site was possible until i saw this film , the scene in which romeo's eyes meet juliet's through the fish tank is one of the most memorable .  of course , they cannot publicly reveal their love , for their families are arch enemies .  so they marry in secret , this is where things begin to go wrong .  the story , as with all good shakespeare , ends in tragedy .  the cinematography is spectacular to say the least , and the soundtrack provides the perfect atmosphere in which to " lay our scene " , as the film says .  there is very little to criticise .  the performances are convincing , and several of the film's younger stars may find that it provides a launch for their careers .  the modernisation of the script is ingenious and clever .  despite the well known storyline , this latest version still manages to cause tears among many members of the audience ( especially the younger generation ) , and this is certainly a great credit to the film . 
neg@ sydney lumet is the director whose work happens to be of varied quality .  he is praised for some of the most important films of the previous decades , like twelve angry men , serpico or the verdict .  but , in the same time , almost any of such pearls is followed by stinkers that hamper lumet's reputation .  a stranger among us , 1992 rip-off of peter weir's witness , belongs to the latter category .  the heroine of this movie is emily eden ( melanie griffith ) , tough lady cop who sometimes shows too much enthusiasm in battling bad guys on the streets of new york .  during one of such actions , her partner nick ( jamey sheridan ) got hurt and as a result , she becomes depressed .  in order to help her recover , bosses give her rather easy task of locating missing jeweller who belonged to hassidic jew community .  emily starts investigation and soon realises that the case involves murder .  concluding that the perpetrator belongs to community , she decides to go undercover .  that isn't easy , because her modern manners are colliding with traditionalist ways .  things get even more complicated when she develops feelings for young cabalistic scholar ariel ( eric thal ) .  using peter weir's formula isn't the greatest flaw of this film .  even the lame and unispiring crime mystery subplot works to the certain extent .  but the worst insult to viewer's audience is terrible miscasting of melanie griffith .  the author of this review never liked this actress very much , but she was at least tolerable in some of her roles .  role of emily eden , unfortunately , isn't one of them .  first of all , she can't pass for tough nypd street fighter , and her attempt to pass for orthodox jewish woman isn't much better .  screenplay by robert j . avrech makes things even worse with some formulaic red herring subplots ( scene involving two italian gangsters was almost too painful to watch ) .  but , on the other hand , other actors are more convincing ( lee richardson as an old rabbi , thal as ariel and charming mia sara as his intended bride ) , and the photography by andrzej bartkowiak very effectively creates atmosphere of warmth when the scenes take place in hassidic community .  also , the film might educate viewers about hassidic culture .  that is the only thing that prevents it from turning into total waste of time . 
pos@ brian depalma needs a hit * really * badly .  since scoring big with the untouchables in 1987 , depalma has seen casualties of war , raising cain and particularly the disastrous bonfire of the vanities go down in flames .  consequently , it would be easy enough to consider carlito's way a shrewd commercial choice for depalma , reteaming with al pacino ( scarface ) and returning to the gangland ground which has yielded his two greatest box office successes .  it doesn't hurt any that he has latched on to a solid story and brought out dynamite performances from pacino and sean penn .  carlito's way , while hampered by depalma's characteristic excesses and stylistic cannibalism , is a truly tense and engrossing drama .  carlito brigante ( pacino ) is a life-long criminal who finds himself unexpectedly given a second chance .  in 1975 , carlito is released from prison after serving only five years of a thirty year sentence when his conviction is overturned on a technicality .  he declares himself reformed , tired of life on the streets and determined to fulfill his simple dream of buying into a rental car business in the bahamas .  among those who find this conversion hard to believe are david kleinfeld ( penn ) , carlito's crooked attorney and childhood friend , and bodyguard pachanga ( luis guzman ) .  carlito rediscovers old flame gail ( penelope ann miller ) , and seems ready to retire in peace .  old ways die hard , though , and old associates pull carlito step by step back into a life he can't seem to shake .  carlito's way will probably make the strongest impression with the two outstanding set pieces which bracket the film .  in the first , carlito accompanies his young cousin on a drug buy which will have anyone with a pulse on the edge of their seat ; the film closes with an equally thrilling chase through the new york subway and grand central station .  both highlight depalma's gift for choreographed mayhem , and these are not the only occasions when the stage blood flows freely .  yet for all the viscera , i found the character study even more compelling .  carlito brigante has a lot of michael corleone in him , an aging gangster trying unsuccessfully to go legit .  but where the culmination of the godfather saga played like opera , there's more of an immediacy to carlito's way , an ever-present sense of doom launched by the title sequence which sets the flashback story in motion .  you sense that there's no way , after so many years , that carlito can stay out of trouble .  indeed , he observes that his attempt at the straight life is more a function of time than a change of heart : " you don't get reformed ; you just run out of wind . "  pacino captures carlito's dilemma with surprising subtlety and the cautious observation borne of years of experience watching every corner for an enemy .  sean penn is even better , turning in his best performance to date as kleinfeld .  a jew in the world of puerto rican and italian wiseguys , kleinfeld is an outsider with a huge chip on his shoulder .  he could have been simply pathetic , a heavy drinker and cocaine addict playing tough with guys way out of his league , but penn invests kleinfeld with tremendous nervous energy and an overwhelming survival instinct .  he shows a man moving steadily towards the brink , making the moment he goes over quite jolting .  as compelling as the narrative is , viewers may experience a profound sense of deja vu .  depalma continues to steal shamelessly from other directors , this time adding scorsese to his repertoire with a point of view tracking shot and a copacabana scene with more than passing resemblances to goodfellas .  he even recycles some of his own previous plagiarisms , like a 360 degree swing around a kiss ( vertigo via body double ) and the climactic shootout which will strike many as far too reminiscent of the train station sequence from the untouchables .  from a story standpoint , there's an obligatory love story with a cliche'd long-suffering girlfriend character .  penelope ann miller is a good but limited actor who doesn't do anything new with the role , and eventually she becomes just a distraction , never integrated fully enough into the story .  still , it's easier to be forgiving of superficial flaws when the backbone is so solid .  the two principle characters held an iron grip on my attention , one all the cinematic thievery in the world couldn't break .  carlito's way plays like a tragic novel : deliberate , confident and powerful .  those willing to grant depalma his tendencies towards the extreme should find themselves well- rewarded . 
neg@ it's a good thing most animated sci-fi movies come from japan , because " titan a . e . " is proof that hollywood doesn't have a clue how to do it .  i don't know what this film is supposed to be about .  from what i can tell it's about a young man named kale who's one of the last survivors of earth in the early 31st century who unknowingly possesses the key to saving and re-generating what is left of the human race .  that's a fine premise for an action-packed sci-fi animated movie , but there's no payoff .  the story takes the main characters all over the galaxy in their search for a legendary ship that the evil " dredge " aliens want to destroy for no apparent reason .  so in the process we get a lot of spaceship fights , fistfights , blaster fights and more double-crosses than you can shake a stick at .  there's so much pointless sci-fi banter it's too much to take .  the galaxy here is a total rip-off of the " star wars " universe the creators don't bother filling in the basic details which makes the story confusing , the characters unmotivated and superficial and the plot just plain boring .  despite the fantastic animation and special effects , it's just not an interesting movie . 
pos@ director jan de bont certainly knows how to make top quality action films .  you need look no further than die hard ( he was director of photography ) , speed and last years twister for examples of his hi- octane , edge of your seat thrill prowess .  speed 2 is no exception .  this time , the action takes place on a huge cruise liner , on which sandra bullock and jason patrick are trying to develop their relationship .  yep , that's right , no keanu reeves this time , but fear not , jason patrick is more than up to the job .  speaking of which , the job at hand is to stop completely bonkers terrorist , willem dafoe , from crashing the liner into a huge island , after stealing a diamond collection .  the reason for this act of destruction is revenge .  after years of working for the company that builds cruise liner computers , he contracts copper poisoning and is retired .  naturally , what entails next is a lot of running/jumping about and general high quality action as jason patrick does his level best to save the day .  thinking back on this film , you can't help , but admire it's structure .  the way , willem dafoe initiates his plan and throws red herrings to the crew and passengers .  the race against time to save the liner from crashing , and of course , the finale chase scence .   ( although this is ruined by an over the top , one too many stunt and explosion . )  simple in construction , effective in it's execution , and the result , a clear and concise , highly enjoyable action film .  the acting is adequate , although it's darned obvious that sandra bullock is only in it to create a 'hot totty' appeal to the men ( and she does that perfectly ! ) , jason patrick fills the action hero role superbly and willem dafoe is just great as the crazed terrorist .  overall , speed 2 is a most enjoyable thrill ride .  not up to it's predecessor's high calibre but very good all the same .  there is plenty going on , some of the thrills are quite tense and it also proves that you do not need blood and guts to make a good action movie . 
neg@  " spice world " is just one long promotional film for the british girl band the spice girls .  sure there's a hint of humor in there every once in a while .  actually , there's a couple of pretty good jabs at the spice girls .  but overall , who cares ?  not me .  if you don't know by now , the spice girls sing songs of love and friendship and responsibility and girl power , yet dress like streetwalkers from a lower middle class neighborhood .  in " spice world " they ride around in their big tour bus , whining about having to do photo shoots and give interviews .  amazingly , all the talk they do about keeping commitments and upholding responsibilities only really applies to fun things , things they want to do , not things they are required to do to keep earning money .  and they keep babbling about " girl power " when they should really be talking about " cleavage power " .  i mean , if all it takes is girl power , then why are they only one thread away from bursting out of their skimpy outfits ?  the film is pg , but really with only some very minor dialogue changes and scene extentions , you'd have yourself one raunchy adult film .  by the way , there's something in the opening credits which says " based on an idea by the spice girls " .  wow , they got idea credit !  i certainly wish that was a new trend in hollywood . . .  giving credit for simply having the thought " say girls , let's make a movie ! "  the supporting cast fares well .  roger moore ( the real james bond ) mockingly plays the cliche-spewing " chief " of the spice girls , and darn it all , he's fun to watch .  mark mckenney also is good as a screenwriter trying to pitch film ideas to the band's manager ( richard e . grant ) .  one question though : george wendt ?  you'd think that " spice world " would envoke one of two reactions in people .  if you like the spice girls , you'll like them even more afterwards .  and if you can't stand them ( like me ) , then " spice world " will really make you sick .  oddly , the audience i saw the film with , roughly 50 twelve year-old girls , sat in silence for the entire film .  well , not the two who sat directly behind me .  they kept muttering " this is stupid " over and over again .  maybe there is hope for humanity after all .  [pg] 
pos@ synopsis : it's 1977 in a small italian american neighborhood in new york .  disco music is popular , and the sexual revolution is on , but the people of new york are not happy .  in fact , they're terrified .  as in spike lee's do the right thing a heat wave has the city in its grip , and peoples' tempers are flaring .  the cool of night offers no respite : the neighborhood is being terrorized by a nocturnal psychotic killer who calls himself the son of sam .  no one knows who the son of sam is , and no one is safe .  all around new york people are different .  aside from cultural groupings and ethnic neighborhoods there are differences between individuals .  in the italian american section of town a philandering husband named vinny ( john leguizamo ) tries to hide his trysts and sexual behavior from his long suffering newlywed wife dionna ( mira sorvino ) .  vinny's friend ritchie ( adrien brody ) hates disco , works at a gay strip club and doesn't want any of the neighborhood folks to know .  ritchie's girl ruby ( jennifer esposito ) is trying to escape a reputation as a slut .  everyone's different , but nobody in the film wants to be framed as " alien " to the community .  unfortunately , the killings help create a climate of suspicion pits neighbor against neighbor .  opinion : director spike lee's summer of sam is not about a psycho killer .  nor is it about cops trying to apprehend him .  it's about differences and how , given the right conditions , even close neighbors can fan the hostile flames of irrational suspicion .  one thing i found interesting in summer of sam was the use of sex .  in other movies sex is glamorized .  for example , james bond gets a sexual reward for winning .  or boring made-for-video " suspense " movies are spiked with gratuitous lingerie scenes just to keep the audience awake .  and every movie or soap opera character in these flicks seems to have expert sexual prowess .  not so with summer of sam .  in a very gutsy move director spike lee shows sex without fantasy .  sex is there , but it isn't gratuitous or titillating .  in fact , some of the main characters are downright lousy in bed .  sex is in the film because ( sexual ) deviance is part of the film's major theme of " difference " breeding hostility .  in my opinion this kind of movie sex is cutting edge for 1999 , as rare and thought-provoking in american cinema as showing a spanking . 
neg@ alexander dumas' the three musketeers is one of the most often-adapted literary works , and for good reason : the swashbuckler is a legend rather than just a story .  perhaps the musketeer , a new film that " reimagines " the novel in the spirit and style of the matrix , is one adaptation too many .  it's just awful : spiritless , silly and unforgivably boring , transforming the timeless classic into a mish-mash of old-as-time clich ? s and incoherent , repetitive action sequences .  this time , d'artagnan is played by calvin klein model justin chambers , who can't even pronounce his character's name .  as a boy , he watched his father get killed by febre ( tim roth ) , a lackey of power-hungry cardinal richelieu .  he vowed to have vengeance .  after undergoing intense training under an expert swordsman , he goes looking for his enemy .  on his quest , he embroils himself in a struggle for control at the highest levels of the french government .  the royal musketeers have lost their gusto , what with their jobs being taken over by the cardinal's own guards .  only a few loyal swashbuckers remain , among them athos and portos ( who are only figureheads in this movie ) .  together with d'artagnan , they fight to extricate the queen ( catherine deneuve ) from the traps that febre and richelieu are trying to plant .  oh , and as an afterthought , d'artagnan falls in love with the poor maid at the local inn ( mena suvari ) .  just thought i'd mention that .  now , look : i don't know whose idea this was , but whoever is responsible deserves a severe tongue-lashing .  i have nothing against " modernizing " classic works of literature - at the very least , they can inspire viewers to actually read the book - but films as dull as this have no positive side effects .  director peter hyams , known for such masterpieces of modern cinema as timecop and end of days , has jettisoned everything that was great about dumas' masterwork : the sense of excitement , cause , and camaraderie .  instead , we get impressively choreographed but somehow vacuous , uninvolving action sequences that emerge from emptiness and lead to nothing .  when the musketeers finally get to holler " all for one , and one for all , " i could have sworn that was dumas rolling in his grave that i felt .  maybe the reason for the utter lack of suspense here is the hyams's tone , which is unreasonably dark and brooding when you consider the reader's digest condensed version of the story that he gives us .  it's as though anything that may have been construed as " fun " was purposely expunged from the production .  the joylessness of the proceedings , from the oppressively shady lighting to the mechanical fight scenes , can be felt in every frame .  chambers can't act ; suvari , roth and deneuve can , but aren't given the chance .  and when push comes to shove , the use of stunt doubles is distractingly obvious , though at least roth gets to play a villain without having to wear an ape suit .  some movies seem sloppy and careless , clearly made for a quick buck .  with the musketeer we get the sense that it was meticulously crafted to be awful .  the film is intricate , stylish and precise , hitting the wrong note every single time . 
pos@ us critic-type people are always shaking our heads and telling everyone that movies aren't thrill rides , but i think that " back to the future ii " is one of the few exceptions .  if the original film had the spirit of the 1950s , then this has the spirit of the 80s : full of fights ; chase scenes ; cliff hangers ; special effects ; some detective work ; and of course the vision of the high-tech future .  the film picks up exactly where the first film left off , with doc ( lloyd ) , marty ( fox ) , and jennifer ( elizabeth shue ) travelling 30 years into the future , because something bad is going to happen to marty and jennifer's kids .  doc tells marty he must take his son's place at an incident that will cause a chain reaction if marty mcfly jr . says yes to griff ( wilson - in one of four different roles ) .  whoever said history tends to repeat itself wasn't joking , especially when it comes to the movies .  essentially the same chase scene that marty endured in the 50s takes place again in the year 2015 , but it's not as authentically exciting this time because it is so obviously a parody of itself .  at the end of the situation marty has changed the course of history for the better , and it seems like everything's copasetic right ?  wrong .  since when do things go according to plan in the " back to the future " movies ?  there are so many minor conflicts and details that effect the plot and the direction of the story i won't even bother to list them all .  basically we get to see marty as an old man , his house , his family , etc . we also go back to an alternate 1985 , and then back again to 1955 , with everything happening so fast the film never stops to catch a breath .  the films' best aspect is the fact that it actually goes back to the first movie and shows a lot of the action that occurred from another angle .  it's difficult to convey the sense of wild and zany fun without describing every little detail .  the only thing sacrificed in this film is the suspense .  instead of a grand finale , we get lots of little victories .  by the end everything is back to normal , but something happens that leads to yet another sequel , but it doesn't seem gratuitous .   " back to the future part ii " is a really great adventure movie .  it certainly has more originality than other films but it lacks a certain charm that was dominate throughout its predecessor . 
neg@ tri-star ; rated r ( language , sexual situations , violence ) ; 87 minutes  director and writer : darren stein  cast : rose mcgowan , rebecca gayheart , judy greer , julie benz , chad christ , ethan erickson , carol kane , pam grier , tatyana m . ali .  review by : geoff berkshire  jawbreaker is the very definition of a " rip-off . "  this uninspired teen comedy takes equal parts carrie ( 1976 ) , heathers ( 1989 ) and clueless ( 1995 ) and mixes in all the necessary teen movie clich ? s .  along the way writer/director darren stein forgets to give the film a life of its own .  the film opens with a voice over from geeky fern mayo ( judy greer ) about the four most popular girls at reagan high : courtney shayne ( rose mcgowan ) who can basically be summed up as satan in heels , julie freeman ( rebecca gayheart ) a good girl with the face of a supermodel , marcie fox ( julie benz ) a dim-witted blonde who demands that people call her " foxy " , and liz purr ( charlotte roldan ) an angel in disguise .  liz is everyone's favorite because she's both beautiful and kind .  liz is about to turn 17 and , as a prank , courtney convinces the other girls to help her in kidnapping liz on her birthday morning .  in order to keep liz from making any noise courtney stuffs a jawbreaker into her mouth before they gag her .  they then stuff liz in the trunk of courtney's car but when they open it later , polaroid camera waiting to capture the moment , their lives will never be the same : poor liz has swallowed the jawbreaker and choked to death with it lodged in her throat ( the audience is treated to a few too many graphic looks at liz's dead body ) .  courtney , thinking fast , decides to pass the death off as a rape/murder and marcie and a reluctant julie assist her .  things get complicated when fern discovers what the three girls are up to .  in order to keep her quiet courtney comes up with another plan and transforms geeky fern into " vylette " , hoping that she will also help to replace liz in the minds of the devastated students .  up until about this point the film is effective enough .  however , an investigation begins into liz's death and the film becomes excessively dull .  the recently rediscovered talents of pam grier are thoroughly wasted in the role of detective vera cruz and the film is downright insipid in its treatment of both the characters and the audience during this long middle stretch .  courtney's plan to frame a sleazy guy ( marilyn manson , in a brief cameo ) is never believable for a second .  meanwhile , the audience is stuck watching a string of random events which fail to develop the characters or add anything of interest to the plot .  julie leaves the group and begins a lame romance with aspiring actor zack ( chad christ ) .  he apparently gives her the courage to turn on courtney but the way things develop only make julie look stupid .  fern's rise to popularity is equally lame .  we do get the best scene in the film ( the only one with a spark of originality ) during this section .  it's a smart and subversive bit where courtney gets the high school's resident jock stud dane ( ethan erickson ) to demonstrate , using a popsicle , exactly what he would like for her to do to him .  it at least provides us with a look at courtney's personality but the way the scene finishes doesn't make any sense .  stein is very conscious of the teen movie tradition he is working in and not only freely borrows major plot elements but also includes direct acknowledgment of this with some stunt casting .  william katt and p . j . soles ( students in carrie ) are liz's distraught parents , jeff conaway ( from grease ( 1978 ) ) is julie's creepy single dad and carol kane ( the frightened babysitter in when a stranger calls ( 1979 ) ) camps it up as principal miss sherman .  at times jawbreaker feels simply like teen cinema's greatest hits but the audience is cheated with watered down interpretations of the best this genre has to offer .  the only notable aspect of jawbreaker is the incredibly stylish look .  the costume design by vickie brinkford and the production design by jerry fleming are both bright and vivid .  they were apparently instructed to work from the color palette of a jawbreaker and the screen is always splashed with bits of vibrant color .  director of photography amy vicent , who beautifully lensed eve's bayou ( 1997 ) , does a remarkable job here as well .  shot composition and camera movement is consistently impressive .  performances are mostly sub-par with mcgowan providing only a few good moments ( compared with her excellent work in the doom generation ( 1995 ) and scream ( 1996 ) ) and gayheart making the biggest impression due to the sweet nature of her character and her obvious beauty .  none of the actors look as if they have set foot inside a high school within the last five years with the exception of actress/singer tatyana ali , who has a small role as a cheerleader .  the male cast all resemble male models and are credited with names like " auto stud , " " college stud , " and " high school stud #2 . "  the soundtrack is decent and imperial teen's catchy " yoo hoo " makes a bigger impression than any other aspect of the film . 
pos@ whenever studio executives try to combine the successful formula of two blockbuster films , the end result is always a mess of a script , acting , directing , and generally a waste of time for any audience with an average iq above 40 .  the latest movie morass from hollywood , the crew , appeared equally destined to fail , a strange combination of grumpy old men and goodfellas tossed together with the likes of richard dreyfuss and burt reynolds helming the ship .  the scary thing is that it's actually entertaining and a breath of fresh air in this otherwise stale month .  the crew works for several reasons .  the clever script is reminiscent of an old billy wilder movie , following four " past their prime " wiseguys from jersey who now live in the raj mahal apartment house in miami beach .  the wiseguys find themselves being evicted from their " golden paradise " by greedy landlords bent on raising rents for new beach bunnies and boys looking for beachfront property .  the four mobsters , bobby bartellemeo ( richard dreyfuss ) , joey " bats " pistella ( burt reynolds ) , mike " the brick " donatelli ( dan hedaya ) , and tony " mouth " donato ( seymour cassel ) decide to hatch a scheme to plant there a dead body heisted from the morgue in order to drive out the new tenants and keep their home .  this " simple plan " suddenly goes screwy , of course , and the boys become involved with a stripper named ferris ( jennifer tilly ) who wants her stepmother killed , a paranoid latin drug lord who's convinced a mysterious rival is out to get him , and a rat with its tail on fire .  the crew works as a strong comedic vehicle driven by a great ensemble cast of talented character actors and subtle leading men .  instead of concentrating on bobby's search for his daughter , the film gives equal screen time to all four wiseguys , balancing the production .  the acting talents of such screen veterans as dan hedaya , seymour cassel , and the great , great burt reynolds are brought out by each character's uniqueness and synergy within the wiseguy circle .  a strong supporting cast including jeremy piven as a philandering boyfriend/cop/partner and miguel sandoval as the paranoid drug lord provide the most laughs .  the film was produced by barry sonnenfeld and carries a hint get shorty with its energetic camera work by michael dinner , emmy award-winning director of the wonder years .  the quick script written by barry fanaro , screenwriter of kingpin , is carried by plenty of subtly dry humor and wit .  the crew is a prime example of how simple and dry-witted a comedy can get these days .  the great thing is that this comedy does not need to be punctuated by bodily fluids , phallus symbols in the head , or grandmothers giving head in a spa .  in the steady flow of " extreme " comedy these days flowing from hollywood like a broken water main , it's the elder statesmen like dreyfuss , reynolds , and hedaya that can carry a comic arc with only a few weapons of choice - a decent script and good acting . 
neg@ when i originally saw the trailer for " analyze this " a few months ago , i must admit , i thought it looked kind of lame .  and then when the commercials started popping up a week or two ago , i thought it looked outright bad .  but then when " analyze this " finally opened a few days ago , an odd thing happened .  it got great reviews .  critics were proclaiming it " hilarious " and a " dead-on parody of mob movies " .  well , with praise like that , i figured , it must be good and so i headed off to the theater .  you know that expression that says always trust your gut instincts ?  well , turns out that expression is more valid than i ever gave it credit for .   " analyze this " is slow , unfunny , and badly acted .  don't get me wrong , i think that deniro is one of the top ten greatest actors of the century , but he is just out of his league here .  i think the problem is he didn't quite know how to approach this material .  he plays his character , mob boss paull vitti , somewhere in between the realm of comedy and drama .  if he had played the character straight , along the lines of leslie nielson in the " naked gun " series , he probably would have been a lot more successful .  as it is , though , he plays the character completely serious at some moments , and for laughs at others .  this doesn't work .  it creates an uneven character that never breaks out of the deniro mold ; you always know it's him .  and the movie is badly paced , too .  it never takes off .  it just crawls from one scene to another without any forward momentum .  i think the blame for this should be placed on the script .  it's obvious the writer had a good idea for a movie , mob boss faces breakdown and needs the services of a psychiatrist , but once this is established , the movie doesn't really go anywhere .  the formula of the film seems to be this : billy crystal says no to deniro , deniro forces him , and much wackiness ensues .  this formula of sorts is repeated several times throughout the movie .  i've said it before and i'll say it again : the only thing that matters to me in a comedy is whether or not it's funny .  if " analyze this " had been funny , the pacing and bad acting wouldn't have bothered me .  i would have been too busy laughing to notice .  but as it is , i only chuckled a few times .  the only really funny scene is a dead-on parody of " the godfather " .  sadly , though , i don't think anyone in the audience i saw it with realized it was a parody , because i was the only one laughing .  but my sense of humour , i have come to realize , is vastly different from the general population .  i loathed " there's something about mary " , yet loved " baseketball " .  now , if you want a movie that * i * think is funny , go out and see " office space " .  it's full of genuine laughs and won't leave you glancing at your watch every 10 minutes , as " analyze this " did . 
pos@ barely scrapping by playing at a nyc piano bar , timothy hutton returns to his massachusetts hometown for a couple of weeks .  on the surface , he's coming home for a high school reunion , but since this is a movie , you know that he's really looking for some major life decisions .  a fairly " small " film , this sports an impressive ensemble cast including uma thurman , rosie o'donnell and a bunch of actors that you've seen before but can't quite place .  commendable jobs all around ; they seem like real people .  hutton arrives at his past and is greeted by his spirit-dead father , terminally goony brother and old high school chums .  all of his old buddies are engaged in the snow removal business and most are in the midst of a relationship crisis .  the perfect stuff for a comedy about people in the twenties angst .  he meets and falls for the new next door neighbor : a beautiful intelligent lively girl who is obviously taken with him .  the problem is that she is only 13 .  unconsummated ( no , it's not _that_ type of movie ) , their relationship builds and neither knows what to do with it .  star-crossed lovers with no where to go .  so hutton is gaga over a barely-teen , one of his buddies is two-timing his girlfriend with a married old flame , another's girlfriend is sleeping with a meat cutter ( " and she's a vegetarian ! " ) .  things are a mess .  enter uma thurman .  the beautiful stranger in town for a few days is both a delight in the film and one of its minor downfalls .  her character is fun to watch .  even more entertaining is observing the guys falling over themselves trying to impress her .  like the lone ranger , before she leaves , she solves most of the problems and sets everyone onward with their lives .  the ending is a bit too pat .  everything is tied up with a neat little bow .  rosie o'donnell is a stand-out in her limited screen time with her brash personality and " tell it like it is " pronouncements .  structured somewhat like a " diner , a few years later " , this feel-good story is a good time , but ends a little too nice . 
neg@ capsule : annoyingly unentertaining , obvious and paper-thin buddy/cop/drug/sexy-witness movie .  presence of director michael bay shows none of the talent he demonstrated in the rock .  i've seen this movie already , i said , as i looked at the box art .  no , i haven't even seen a trailer for the movie ; i don't even know what it's about , but i can look at the way they're promoting it , and i know i've seen it already .  i thought : it's about these two cops .  and they're buddies , sort of .  they're at each other's throats a lot , but they really do like each other .  and everyone else in their department hates them 'cause they're hot-shots .  and they have some kind of diametric opposition in their relationship .  and one day they're in the middle of cop business as usual when they get mixed up in this plot that involves a really sadistic bad guy with lots of henchmen who can never hit anything with the billions of rounds of ammo they are always carrying .  and the bad guy is a drug lord .  and there's a witness , and she's this sexy thing who rubs both of them the wrong way .  and their supervisor wants their badges for breakfast when they blow up half the town bringing this guy down .  i only missed the bit about the badges .  the rest i got dead-on .  and i hadn't even left the video store yet .  the cops in this movie are will smith and martin lawrence , and the bad guy is the immensely underutilized tcheky karyo .  smith plays a cop who has a trust fund and is thus not a cop for the money ; martin l . is a family man ( shades of the now-tired lethal weapon dynamic here ) whose wife and he are at total odds .  this leads to some strained scenes about lawrence's " not getting any " , and some totally unneccesary bits with him skulking around his own house , thinking his partner is now his wife's " back door man " .  not funny ; tiresome .  bad boys gets some of its incredibly meager selling points from the presence of will smith and martin lawrence .  will smith is a natural , and i'm happy to see him in movies like six degrees . . .  and men in black .  he's funny and charming without trying to be ; he really does seem to be enjoying himself .  martin lawrence is a different story ; he's so uptight and verbally constipated that sitting through his improvised riffs are a trial .  movies like this are not about originality .  i know this .  they are about style and energy and synergy between actors .  i know this , too .  and yet , while watching bad boys , which its glamorous photography and impossibly exact stunt choreography , i felt fed up .  i'd seen con air , which despite being completely implausible , was still great fun , because it tried however feebly to put some new life into the mix .  bad boys is a dry run -- and overlong , too , clocking in at just over two hours with a lot more by-play than i felt could be justified .  i could write this movie .  you could write this movie .  many people have .  many people will continue to write this movie , over and over again .  other people will buy it from them , and make it , and we will pay money to see it .  more the fools we all .  in a terrifyingly prescient line from his book a scanner darkly , phil k . dick once mused that the mcdonaldburger ( as he called it ) would eventually eclipse money as the token of cultural and financial exchange .  one day we will all just sit in our living rooms and sell the same burger back and forth to each other .  the same could be said about this movie .  i have the sinking feeling we're going to see it again .  soon . 
pos@ every once in a while a movie comes along that completely redefines the genre : with dramas , it was citizen kane , with arthouse it was pulp fiction , and with comedy it was , well , that jim carrey guy ( okay , so he's not a movie , but he did have a huge influence on the genre .  not to mention an expensive one . )  sometimes a movie even combines them all into a big , sprawling motion picture event , as did forrest gump four years ago .  with action films , it was aliens , whic was released to much hype seven years after it's equally-innovative parent , alien ( 1979 ) .  directed and written by james cameron ( t2 : judgement day , the abyss , true lies ) , the authority on action films , it was a masterful encore to his sci-fi thriller the terminator ( 1984 ) .  while the original alien film was a dark , enclosed horror film that featured one alien slowly massacering a horrified crew , james cameron took the big-budget action film with aliens , which featured multiple aliens doing basically the same thing , although on a much-larger scale .  and boy , did he take that route !  i'd say at about 165 mph or so . . .  the film opens 57 years after the original , with lt . ripley ( weaver ) being found in her ship in a cryogenic state by a salvage vessel .  if you'll recall , at the end of alien ripley , the only surviving member , cryogenically " hibernated " herself after expelling the rogue alien from her ship .  unfortunately , she thought she'd only be out for a couple of weeks . . .  once she's returned to earth , ripley is quickly interrogated by " the company " , who quickly dismiss her and her stories as lunacy .  in truth , they believe her , as they soon approach ripley with an offer to travel with some marines to a new colony planet as an " alien advisor " .  it seems that the colony planet was a once-breeding ground for the nasty aliens , and now all communication with the planet has been lost . . .  it doesn't exactly take a genius to guess what happens next : ripley agrees , and before you can say " big mistake " , she and the half dozen marines , plus the slimy corporate guy ( reiser ) , who has more than it looks like up under his sleeve , are off to the colony .  when they arrive , they find the planet in ruins .  only one survivor is found , a little girl , newt , who confirms that , yes , the aliens were here and that she only managed to survive by hidding in the ventilation system .  and soon enough , the marines come under attack from the aliens . . .  what happens for the next hour and a half or so is what completely sets this movie apart from any other standard alien sci-fi movie : the action scenes .  cameron directs them so skillfully , and so suspensefully , that you're literally ringing your hands by the time the finale rolls around .  which features , in my opinion , the best fight scene ever recorded on film , as ripley straps herself into a huge robot and battles the nasty queen alien to the death .  many people will tell you that this film , while being a great action film , has no real drama and is all cliches .  well , they would be wrong , my friends .  if this film had no " drama " , then why was sigourney weaver nominated for best actress at the 1987 academy awards ?  that's right , best actress .  you know that any action film that has an oscar nomination attached to it for something other than technical stuff like editing and f/x has got to be good .  in short , aliens combines all the right elements ( great action and f/x , drama , a good plot , good dialogue , and great villains ) into what could arguably be called the best action film of all time .  then again , maybe not .  movies rise and fall from glory and , sad to say , aliens was wrestled from it's throne of best action movie by another cameron film , t2 : judgement day , in 1991 .  so who will be the next king ?  well , let's wait until december 19th and see yet another james cameron film-the highest budgeted film of all time-titanic to make that decision .  i can't wait . 
neg@ tomb raider .  fun ?  exciting ?  challenging ?  given the unprecedented popularity ( especially among teenage boys ) of the video game that sports an uber-buff , pistol packin' babe who raids , well . . .  tombs , you have to believe it's these three things and more !   " lara croft : tomb raider , " the big screen variant of said video game , which features a pumped-up angelina jolie ( the oscar ? winner for " girl , interrupted " no less ) in the title role is , however , none of these things .  it isn't fun , it isn't exciting , and the only challenge is seeing how long you can stay in your seat ( i suffered through to the bitter , bitter end ; the wife opted for barnes & noble at the 45-minute mark ) .  directed by simon west with the same subtlety he brought to " con air , " " tomb raider " is an empty-headed , big budget bore .  the story borrows unintelligently from that mother of all turkeys " hudson hawk " ( the same hokum about planetary alignments and sacred stones that , when brought together , well . . .  who the heck cares ? ) and it makes " super mario bros . " ( bob hoskins' ill-advised career move ) look like " rocco and his brothers " ( that classic of italian neo-realism ) .  i'll go out on a limb here and say i suspect there's actually more character development in the video game than the movie proper .  this is where the jolie defenders/video game nuts jump in and say this movie isn't about character development it's about kicking serious butt ( or bum , since ms . croft hails from england's green and pleasant ) .  with lips , breasts , and biceps all inflated to the max , lara croft is all about posturing , and jolie has a hard time simply standing still without trying to look tough .  ok , let's forget challenging .  shouldn't " tomb raider " be , at the very least , fun and exciting ?  shouldn't our butt-kicking heroine also encompass the sophistication of , say , james bond with the wit of indiana jones ?  there's no humor to be found anywhere in " tomb raider , " even though it tries hard from time to time .  even " the mummy returns " didn't take itself too seriously .  the villain here is noticeably lacking , the special effects are ridiculously overblown and unnecessarily complicated , and the script is non-existent .  to liven things up ( perhaps ) , jolie's live father jon voight puts in a few minutes as lara's dead father lord croft ; talk about a stretch .  one thing i hadn't expected from the film is that jolie affects a slightly better english accent than her pa ( although i suspect that thin-looking moustache he's forced to wear gets in the way some ) .  unsuccessful ? not entirely .  if anything , " lara croft : tomb raider " makes you want to check out the video game itself to figure out exactly what all the fuss was about . 
pos@ meet joe black is your classic boy-meets-girl , boy-likes-girl , boy-gets-killed-in-horrible-accident , supernatural-entity-takes-over-boy's-body , supernatural-entity-falls-in-love-with-girl story .  based on the 1934 film death takes a holiday , meet joe black is a well acted romantic drama which explores the meanings of life and love .  william parrish ( anthony hopkins ) is a billionaire businessman on the brink of his 65th birthday .  he has built a huge media empire , and raised two beautiful daughters , allison ( marcia gay harden ) and susan ( claire forlani ) .  william has been able to negotiate his way out of many tough spots . . . but he has suddenly begun fearing his own mortality , the one situation he won't be able to talk his way out of .  and he has good reason to fear , for death himself is stalking him .  however , death has a deal to make .  death has taken possession of a man who has recently died ( brad pitt ) , and wants william to be his guide in a holiday among the living .  in return , william gets to live a few extra days .  of course , he agrees .  death , under the human name of " joe black " , gets to experience life as a complete innocent .  he never before has experienced the simple pleasures of a springy matters or peanut butter .  and he's not quite compared for the more complex pleasures when he and susan fall in love .  but , is their affair doomed to an early demise ?  at nearly three hours in length , meet joe black is a little bit on the leisurely side , though it never gets boringly lengthy .  instead , the film gets a chance to develop some nicely textured characters and situations .  you get to soak in and enjoy the atmosphere , rather than being hurriedly rushed through it .  the romantic angle works well , though , surprisingly , the interactions between joe black and william parrish are more interesting than those with his daughter .  this is most likely due to anthony hopkins , who once again displays his superb acting skills .  william is a desperate man who has had a seemingly ideal life , and doesn't want to let it go .  by contrast , claire forlani is merely the romantic interest .  she gets to show joe the ropes of love , but is hardly as interesting a character .  as joe black , brad pitt seems a bit stilted .  granted , he's supposed to be out-of-place , but the overly formal technique used by pitt begins to distract from the role .  still , he is able to hold his own , and over the course of the three hours , his character begins to grow on you .  the main character who seems out of place here is drew ( jake weber ) , an ambitious executive in williams' company who is joe black's main rival for susan's affections .  weber plays the character with a hammy relish reminiscent of snidley whiplash .  this cartoonish foil an aberration in a film filled many more dimensional characters .  the supernatural elements of the film are handled murkily , but never distractingly so .  we never learn what is the exact nature of death , or why he's never done something like this before .  it actually gets a bit creepy when death talks to the dying in their own voices/accents .   ( his initial conversations with hopkins sound shockingly like hannibal lecter . . . )  and the ultimate resolution to one of the film's supernatural problems seems , well , somewhat superficial .  still , even with the film's length , it was a pleasant time at the movies , something you wouldn't necessarily expect from a film about death . . . but one which meet joe black delivers anyhow . 
neg@ the swirling sick feeling hit me just a few minutes into " heartbreakers . "  ray liotta's character was making out with his secretary when his new wife knocked on the door of his office .  while scrambling to collect himself , he frantically shouted to her , " just wait a sex ? er , i mean sec ! "  i was struck by a wave of revulsion , thinking , " geez , didn't lines like that die when 'three's company' was canceled ? "  over the next few minutes , as the barely double entendres and lingering cleavage shots grew more numerous , i realized that the mindset behind " heartbreakers " predated " three's company . "  suddenly , i had an out-of-body experience as my internal way-back machine swept me to the mid-1960s .  all across america , the counter-culture was growing like wildfire , but there was scant evidence of it on tv .  while young people were challenging traditional values on the streets , frustrated teenagers like me were stuck at home , sulking while our parents enjoyed the latest bob hope special .  women in skimpy bathing suits would prance onscreen while hope made growling noises and leered at their breasts .  on another channel , dean martin made wisecracks about " booze and broads " and peter lawford , decked out in love beads and a nehru jacket , purred suggestive one-liners as he ogled the go-go dancers .  the adults laughed and laughed .   " heartbreakers " reeks of that stagnant mentality , from its lingering shots of jennifer love hewitt's vah-vah-voom breasts to its leaden screenplay , which paints women as haughty schemers and men as drooling buffoons too sex-obsessed to realize they are being manipulated .  in addition to liotta and hewitt , the cast includes sigourney weaver , gene hackman , jason lee , nora dunn and anne bancroft .  i can't imagine what drew performers of their caliber to this project .  perhaps they thought it was a parody of the sniggering sex comedies of the '60s .  if so , they were sadly mistaken .  the story revolves around a mother-daughter con-team .  it opens with the marriage of max ( weaver ) to dean ( liotta ) , a new jersey chop shop operator .  having withheld sex until the honeymoon , max pretends to pass out on their wedding night .  the next morning , she feigns illness , sending a very horny dean off to the office , where he ends up in the arms of his new secretary .  just as the two are about to get overtly physical , max bursts into the room and catches them .  the " horrified " bride dissolves the union , garnering a healthy cash settlement along the way .  of course , the secretary was really her daughter page ( hewitt ) and the whole thing was a set-up .  the women move on , but an irs agent ( bancroft ) catches up with them and demands a huge amount of money to cover unpaid taxes .  in desperate need of funds , max and page head for palm beach to replay the scam .  their mark this time is william b . tensy ( hackman , in hideous make-up ) , a decrepit tobacco tycoon obsessed with the joys of smoking .  max starts to put the game into action , but page is so repelled by the old man ( and angry with her mom ) that she slips off to enact her own score , targeting jack , a laid back young beach bar owner who is worth a fortune .  complications arise when page realizes that good-natured jack is stirring actual emotions in her steely little heart .  as if that wasn't enough , dean reappears on the scene with revenge on his mind .  the attempt to weld a romance onto a caper comedy served only to remind me of the infinitely superior " a fish called wanda . "  i won't bother to compare the two .  suffice to say that everything done right in " wanda " is done wrong here .   " heartbreakers " is soulless , inept and , at 123 minutes , at least a half-hour too long .  sigourney weaver and jennifer love hewitt throw themselves into their parts , but have nowhere to go with the metallic characters .  gene hackman is utterly wasted in a one-note , one-joke part that has him doing nothing but smoking , coughing and waxing rhapsodic about smoking and sex .  poor jason lee is stuck in the ingenue role and the normally charismatic actor comes off as merely bland .  ray liotta manages to squeeze a tiny bit of humanity and humor into his walking clich ? , but only a bit .  the low point in the film has weaver employing a russian accent bad enough to make boris and natasha wince , while doing half-assed slapstick with a broken off penis from a statue .  bear in mind , though , that this is merely the worst segment of a movie made up of nothing but low points .  if you remember bob hope specials with fondness , this might be your cup of tea .  as for me , i'm going to watch " a fish called wanda " now and try to forget i ever saw " heartbreakers . " 
pos@ the cryptic teaser trailer has been unspooling in moviehouses for quite sometime now : " it mu5t be found . "  so what , exactly , is the fifth element ?  after seeing luc besson's ambitious , much-shrouded-in-secrecy science fiction fantasy , i could not help but be let down by the actual answer , which is not nearly as exciting nor clever as one would think .  but what is far from a letdown is the film as a whole , a wildly imaginative feast for the senses that does what all the best science fiction films do--create a universe unlike any other presented on the silver screen .  the biggest irony of the fifth element is that the one thing that has been kept under such tight wraps--the actual storyline--is the most conventional , dismayingly so , element ( pun intended ) of the film .  speaking in the vaguest possible terms , the basics of the plot are as follows : in the year 2259 , a great force of evil threatens to consume the earth , and only the four elements--earth , wind , fire , and water--united with a fifth element can stop it .  figuring into all of this are new york cabbie korben dallas ( bruce willis ) ; a shady , southern-drawling entrepreneur by the name of zorg ( the hilariously hammy gary oldman , picking up where he left off in besson's the professional ) ; a priest ( ian holm ) ; and a mysterious creature named leeloo ( milla jovovich ) .  all of the pieces come together in a tidy and somewhat underwhelming--and unsurprising--fashion , but there is no denying that this basic story holds some intrinsic interest .  what remains interesting and exciting , however , after brief glimpses is the fascinating world besson has created with production designer dan weil , director of photography thierry arbogast , visual effects supervisor mark stetson , and the crew at digital domain .  the look is absolutely mesmerizing right from the opening moments to the last .  the frenzied cityscape of new york , with its vibrant day-glo colors , tall buildings penetrating high into the clouds , and the swarm of cars , cabs , and other vehicles flying through labyrinthian skyways , is absolutely breathtaking to behold , especially in a wild car chase sequence early on in the film .  but it would not have been a completely captivating vision if the people inhabiting the settings weren't equally as interesting , and are they ever .  in addition to the exotic menagerie of alien creatures that populate this world , from bulky robots to dog-like mangalores , the humans are outfitted in costumes by eccentric designer jean-paul gaulthier , best known for creating madonna's pointy bustier get-up in her blonde ambition tour .  gaulthier's outlandish creations , such as a number worn by leeloo made entirely out of white straps , feel more at home in besson's futuristic vision than on any fashion runway in the world ; they add to the sense of otherworldliness about the film .  while besson's bold vision is the biggest virtue of the film , it also could be its biggest obstacle to reaching a mass audience .  for all its imagination , certain things about the film may be a bit too quirky and bizarre .  i really do not know what middle america will make of the most outrageous character of the film , ruby rhod ( chris tucker ) , a flamboyant disc jockey who makes dennis rodman look conservative--he makes a raucous entrance dressed in an animal print dress , sporting a blonde hairdo in the shape of a hair dryer , speaking in high pitches at rapid fire speed .  at first this character's hyper energy is funny , but the act wears out its welcome very quickly .  not irritating , but just as strange , is a musical number by blue-skinned alien chanteuse diva ( maiwenn lebesco ) , who sings--and dances--an aria that is an unlikely blend of classical opera and techno .  the tune , as with the entirety of longtime besson collaborator eric serra's innovative score , is haunting , but it is also completely jarring .  then there are the campy touches of humor besson and co-scripter robert mark kamen sprinkle throughout , which too often are silly and forced ; a comic sexual encounter between ruby rhod and a flight attendant is highly distracting and not very funny , to boot .  the story's weakness shines through in the climax and conclusion of the fifth element .  while still visually and aurally spectacular , the events detailed are not as exciting nor powerful as they should be .  the big , serious dramatic climax was met with more than a few snickers , and it ambitiously strives for a profundity which the film had not even begun to work toward .  as such , at the end there is a sense that there was something bigger at work here , that there was still more left to be said about this story and these characters .  this suspicion was confirmed by besson himself , who told me in the lobby following the screening ( imagine that , the filmmaker watching the film with the " enemy " --the critics ) that what had made it to the screen was really just the first half of the lengthy original fifth element screenplay and that the second half--now titled mr . shadow--is still waiting to be made .  still , despite the story problems , the fifth element is an artistic triumph for luc besson ; rarely does a filmmaker's original vision come to the screen in all its audacious , undiluted glory .  it is a fascinating example of how of one artist's fervid imagination can transport an audience into an intoxicating fantasy world generally seen only in dreams . 
neg@ plot summary : the year is 2024 .  the ozone layer has long since gone and the earth is now protected from radiation by a shield invented by connor mccleod .  the shield , although saving lives , has made the atmosphere hot and humid .  connor is a mortal and a tired old man who has given up hope .  on returning from the opera one night connor is accosted by the leader of a " terrorist " organisation .  they have tried to find out what the company that now runs the shield unit are covering up .  connor is then attacked by two assassins sent by katana from the planet zeist ( like zeit--get it ? ) .  they fail and connor becomes immortal again by chopping their heads off .  he then brings ramirez back to life in glencoe in scotland .  both ramirez and connor are rebel leaders back on zeist and have been sent to earth as punishment .  connor now has the option to return being the last one but opts to stay with his new found immortality and fight to find out about the company and the shield .  katana meanwhile , fearing connor would return , sets out himself to kill the highlander .  if you have never seen it .  being a fan of highlander and mr . connery , i was in the cinema as soon as i could to see highlander ii : the quickening .  i wish it had been quicker .  i feel whatever else you can say about a film ( bad script bad music , etc . ) if you sit just plain bored through most of it then nothing much else needs to be said .  the film was short but in my opinion only twelve minutes or so ( the time mr . connery is on the screen for ) is worth watching .  the plot sounds a little ridiculous but i was willing to give it a chance .  maybe they could pull it off .  instead , i find that the characters have completely changed from those in the first film .  it's as if they are different people with the same names .  witness connor jumping into bed with the leader of the resistance -- where is the attitude of " who wants to live forever , when love must die " gone to ?  the love sub-plot * must * have had footage cut out .  the highlander and ramirez both seemed aware of powers they had never mentioned before .  putting our heroes in deadly situations and then having them walk away because of some new power is very annoying .  i still want to know why connor's coat becomes flame proof when he is immortal !  we are not given enough time on zeist to believe in it , nor are we told why advanced aliens still use swords to kill .  why not dynamite or laser saws or just plain bullets followed by a quick chop to the neck ?  i know the head needs to come off but you could at least immobilise your opponent with laser rifles first .  to be fair one assassin tried this but he must be the world's worst shot .  meanwhile connor develops luke-skywalker-like powers of laser beam deflection .  as for " bad guys , " we see a rebellion on zeist , crushed easier than a grape and then the rest of the plot depends on katana being obsessed with killing mccleod in case he returns to zeist .  two assassins are sent , presumably they are meant to be good at killing but an aged connor kills them both with no problems .  no more assassins are sent .  katana , supposedly a very powerful man goes himself to kill connor .  has he no more assassins ?  has he no better ?  why was the rebellion crushed so easily then ?  michael ironside is totally unconvincing ( bring back the kurgan ) .  he seems like a cartoon character and really isn't that evil , just stupid and violent .  we see the hollywood trick of the chief nasty threatening a child again and killing lots of innocents .  yet he still seems like no threat -- perhaps because he seems too stupid to threaten connor , or maybe because his two best assassins wouldn't have been amiss with larry , curly and mo .  so much for plot and characters .  the music is atrocious .  it is at best intrusive and at worst annoying .  bring back queen .  there was an audible sigh ( of relief ? )  when connor played a queen track in a juke box .  i believe this at least is to be corrected for the american release .  the acting is at best flat , except for mr . connery .  lambert is uninteresting and when he delivered " there can be only one " this time around it just made me wish there had only been one -- highlander .  michael ironside is unconvincing ; sorry , michael , i usually like you and everyone else was incredibly forgetable .  so why 2/10 ?  visually the film is interesting at all times .  it has a blade runner feel to it and some of the special effects are quite stunning .  add to this an irrepressible sean connery who smiles throughout the whole film -- or is he smirking to himself ?  his lines and delivery might make the film worthwhile had it not been so obvious that he cannot take the whole thing seriously at all but hey -- * i'd * have done it for 12 million .  oh , and i agree with a previous reviewer , she * does * look like sharon stone but i believe it is her first film .  incidentally there is a line producer credited and i hear rumours of highlander iii : the wizard . 
pos@ the characters in " palmetto " collectively sweat enough to fill lake erie , and it's just the right way to capture the film's ripe atmosphere of sensuality , tension and even farce .  this humid florida-set thriller nurtures a modestly absurd edginess that often winks at itself , which is very much a good thing since the actors and director are in on the joke .  as far as set-up is concerned , the movie is nothing we haven't seen before , but be patient -- " palmetto " spins some pretty wicked story twists that we really don't see coming .  it's not a classic by any means , but it sure is quite an engaging surprise .  harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is fresh out of prison , where he's served a couple of years for a crime he didn't commit .  even though he harbors animosity towards the obtuse local officials , harry's first order of business is to return to his home town of palmetto to be with his sculptor girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) .  while searching for work , he catches the eye of rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue ) , the mysterious sexbomb wife of a palmetto millionaire .  rhea proposes a scheme that'll get harry $50 , 000 easy -- to play a small part in the staged kidnaping of her jailbait stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny ) .   " you do like risks , don't you , mr . barber ? "  rhea alluringly coos .  boys , form a line behind me .  part of " palmetto " 's success can be attributed to the performance of elisabeth shue , who demonstrates here that her oscar-nominated turn in " leaving las vegas " might merely be foreshadowing great things to come .  shue's a seductive , campy delight , and pulls off a barbara stanwyck-gloria swanson combo with admirable relish .  the other actors form a solid ensemble around her , including sevigny ( " kids " ) , tantalizingly slutty as a teen tease , as well as the ever-likeable gershon , cast a far cry from her extreme roles in " bound " and " showgirls . "  harrelson is still doing fine follow-up work to " the people vs . larry flynt . "   " palmetto " does have its share of grievances .  harrelson's narration is needless , i suppose , and gershon's nina cries to be meatier than she ultimately is .  one of the plot's unexpected angles -- that harry is asked by the police to become the press liaison for the very crime in which he's involved -- could have been played a little better .  there are moments when you question the tone , but it's never so unstable that it deserves the reproach it's been receiving from most other critics .  if " palmetto " didn't want to be laughed at , would it really have tacked on a climax that plays like a live-action " who framed roger rabbit " ?  although a few elements can be questioned , the movie works well on its own terms .  thanks to a juicy cast -- especially shue -- and the nifty material approach from director volker schlondorff ( you remember him from last summer's suddenly re-popular " the tin drum , " right ? ) ,  everything runs smoothly .  and for fans of revelation-heavy endings , this film's got a few shocks in store that i won't even dream of revealing .   " palmetto " is a generous amount of fun to watch , and that's all you need to know . 
neg@ not a great twelve months for either of the principals from this movie .  earlier this year , nora ephron wrote and produced one of the year's least likeable " comedies " called hanging up , featuring a bunch of annoying women ( ironically , lisa kudrow played one in that film as well ) who barely have time to care about anyone but themselves .  ick . . . real  sweet stuff .  but her little unsuccessful project was nothing compared to what john travolta went through earlier this summer , with a film entitled battlefield earth .  i seemed to be the only person on this planet who somehow appreciated the film , even if it was on a " cheese " factor , as everybody , and i mean everybody else , pretty much classified the movie as one of the worst disasters of all time .  yipes . . . another  beauty .  so what happens when you put these two people in the same room and come out with a movie co-starring the ever-versatile lisa kudrow ?  uhhhm , you guessed it . . . not  much .  plot : in order to escape major financial difficulties , a local weatherman hooks up with his ball-picking lotto girlfriend and rigs the state lottery .  but as more and more people find out about their scheme , more and more people demand a part of their winnings , and more and more problems arise .  critique : simply stated , i didn't laugh once during this entire picture .  for a comedy , it offered me a few smiles , a bunch of nincompoops as characters , a miscast john travolta hamming it up and lisa kudrow , in what can only described as a " sluttier " version of her character of phoebe on tv's " friends " .  this film was not as disastrous as i thought it would be , but it was pretty close .  thankfully , the clips of travolta dressed up in goofy outfits , dancing as the weatherman were left in the film's trailer , and not in this final cut .  and not unlike the worst movie of the year so far , beautiful , this film also managed to feature many unsympathetic , idiotic and just plain irritating characters in its cast .  foremost was travolta's character , who declined to give us any reason to care for him once in the entire movie .  and for me , the casting choice of john travolta for this role was just plain wrong .  he didn't fit the part .  i just saw him in get shorty the other day and thought about how perfect he was for that role .  a cool , calculating roughneck with a certain hip , suave " je ne sais quoi " .  in this film , he looks like he's trying to be funny , trying to be bad , trying to be good .  we're not supposed to be able to notice that , and when we do , at least in my case , i consider it a wrong choice in casting .  add that to lisa kudrow , boring us with yet another one of her patented " dumb blonde " routines , but this time , dressed in sexier outfits .  michael rapaport , stretching one small acting muscle to play the guy who isn't quite up at the same speed level as everyone else .  and a truckload of empty comedic bullet shells , and you've got yourself an extremely quiet audience anticipating punch lines that never quite materialize .  the only real good thing that i could say about this film is that its story was actually half-interesting and never really bored me .  i also liked michael moore's perverted cousin character , and i loved , and i say it again , loved the character that bill pullman played .  give this dude his own movie !  he played a lazy cop , a man who tries everything not to do any real work .  he fakes injuries to get off duty , tries to avoid arrest situations so that he won't have to fill out any forms . . . now  there's a base of humor .  sadly , the filmmakers decided to bring him into play with only about half an hour left in the film .  and there's not much else i can say about this movie , folks .  on the whole , it was lame , included a slew of unlikable characters fiddling around in a pool of unfunny lines , and very little of interest for any target audience .  but get somebody to write up a movie featuring that lazy cop played by pullman and i'm there ! 
pos@ it's been a good long while since we had a good old fashioned thriller , where mostly everything goes right for the audience and wrong for the characters , but it's been even longer since i saw a thriller that actually * shock * cared for the characters , not merely judged them but actually allowed their human foibles , flaws , and strengths to emerge so radiantly .  i'd saw that it's been at least a couple decades , even as far back to the great hitchcock thrillers , though i'm hardly comparing " a simple plan " to , say , " rear window " or " strangers on a train . "  yet it's almost as good .  it's simple , yet strangely complex , and astonishingly rewarding , because instead of moving from plot point to plot point , and merely laying out they-might-be-caught overtones , it instead concerns itself with the moral corruption and depths of greed that its protagonists can go to , all without ever judging them as either evil or even immoral .  elegantly directed by sam raimi ( yes , the same ) , " a simple plan " concerns itself with the discovery of a crashed plane and within a bag full of millions of dollars by an upright , moderately financially stable working man ( bill paxton ) , his dim-witted brother ( billy bob thornton ) , and his drinking buddy ( brent briscoe ) .  without anyone around , and the possibility that no one would come looking for it , the three debate and debate but finally reach the decision that yes , they will keep it , but until any authorities or possible owners of the cash come looking , and so they generally don't flaunt anything they don't want to flaunt , they'll keep it stored away in the custody of paxton .  the possibilites of this circumstance are much diverse : a ) they could endlessly play cat and mouse with the authorities ; b ) they could try to fight off the rightful owners , who are either villainous or just ; or c ) they could fight amongst themselves .   " a simple plan , " though borrows a little from each of these .  a little tiff with the cops here , a subplot involving an alleged fbi agent ( a chilling gary cole ) there ) , and a bit of inside feuding over here .  but , as austin powers would say , that's not necessarily its bag ( baby ) .  what i most admired about this film , and what makes this a far superior and unique thriller is that it's successfully able to have its cake and eat it too .  it effectively involves some of the traditional thriller cliches , like the ones mentioned above , but at the same time , it involves itself more deeply with the way the characters become morally corrupt and what price they have to pay to have what they think is happiness in a black duffle bag .  so while steps are taken to neatly cover things up , and these subsequent steps go miserably awry , the film choses to never loose the sight that in covering things up to the extent that these characters have to , they are slowly losing their souls and their humanity .  in one early scene , paxton and thornton have to make a trip back to the plane to return some of the money so it doesn't look like it was all stolen ( not a bad idea ) , when thornton screws up ( as he does continuously throughout the movie ) , and paxton has to do some major covering-up ( read : homicide ) .  instead of a quick murder and immeadiate hands-washing , raimi shows a lengthy , painful shot from a low-angle onto paxton's face as he tries to sift through his emotions and reach a conclusion .  there's a similar shot afterwards of paxton watching the murder he's committing and taking in all the horror which is also wonderfully effective , but the previous shot is even better : more morally complex and more gut-wrenching .  in short , probably the best piece of direction raimi's ever done , demonstrating once again that sometimes the simplest way to do something yields the best results ( for further proof , watch " persona " 's " sex scene " and witness what may be the best scene ingmar bergman's ever done ) .  but the film hardly stops here ; it follows completely through and rarely loses sight of its characters humanity and the depletion thereof .  yet it also moves from step to step in such a graceful method that we never feel like the film is merely stamping out the plot points of the story .  when the time comes for paxton to start becoming selfish and thus diabolical ( with aid from his pregnant wife , played by bridget fonda , a pal to raimi ) , he does , and soon the horror of the situation is escalating to tragic heights .  there's at least two grand shootouts , and at least one of them may be one of the greatest shootouts in cinema history , and when they arrive , they don't come with masochistic delight but with cringe-inducing horror .  during the one , i was actually sinking into my chair , with the mantra " they can't do this , can they ? "  streeming through my head .  in fact , this film , which is getting many comparisons to the coen's [superior , but forget about it] " fargo , " has many similar moments of manic insanity , attributed to the major amount of subtlety and restraint with which the directors direct what , in other hands , would be over-the-top distractedness ( imagine , i suppose , robert rodriguez directing this . . . then  again , after seeing the " evil dead " films , i'd hardly assume raimi would be able to pull something like this off , although there are moments of the film which are easily dubbed " raimi " moments , a rifle-shot notwithstanding ) .  instead , raimi directs with maturity and a gentle touch , easily letting the story and characters co-exist , while still letting some of the more traditional raimi elements come out , like some offbeat comic touches .  most particularly , billy bob thornton's character , jacob , is a brilliant creation .  his dim-wittedness is often hilarious ( for most of the film , every line he uttered was greeted with howling laughter ) , but there's authenticity to the performance that strangely enough makes sure that we're not totally laughing at him .  the chuckles he gets are not necessarily ones of full-condescension because thornton is so damn real .  jacob's a multi-dimensional character , and while being stupid , we see that as not so much a flaw , but a strength to his character : his simplicity is endearing and many of the acts he commits are out of a strong inner strength and belief system , primarily towards the middle where his bud and co-conspirator begins to make some heavy waves concerning the money .  the final third of the film spends much time with him , and many of the touches upon his character , not only by thornton but also by screenwriter scott b . smith ( adapting his own book , by the way ) are just great .  i particularly admired a back story about an old high school girlfriend , told by thornton with such sincerity and acception that the cruel story is reversed to near-sweetness and further strength of his saddened character .  thornton is absolutely brilliant in this performance , by far the best performance he's ever given and further proof that he's the best character actor in contemporary cinema ( if you don't believe me , go back and watch his wonderful performance in " primary colors , " a performance that would have been nominated for an oscar if this hadn't been in the same year ) because he's easily able to slip into a character , and make him completely and utterly believable .  he brings so much weight to the film that , as it is with most character actors , it's difficult picturing anyone else in the role .  the rest of the cast is great too , from paxton's declining working man to chelcie ross' amiable town sheriff .  even fonda shows off her talents nicely .  and if i had any complaints about the film , it's that the plot is almost too simplistic , and that at times , it seems too much like an exercise , like a cruel test on humanity that still pays attention to the humanity involved .  and the occasional narration is , as it usually is , annoying ( narration should be used with extreme caution , especially when you're trying to set things up and/or express emotions - didn't raimi watch the first murder scene ? ) .  and , the thing that can most usually go wrong with a movie , the ending is basically amiss .  i won't reveal it , but it's way too cruel and too much of an outsider set-up , as if the appearance of a plane wasn't already too much of that anyway .  for a film that deals so much and so intimately with the humanity of the characters involved , this is the wrong ending .  imagine a character-controlled ending ; otherwise , it's like if in " crime and punishment " if the police had caught him instead of him breaking down and confessing . . . not that i'm at all comparing " a simple plan " to dostoevsky .  the ending does work , despite my protestations , but to me , there was something incessantly nagging and unsatisfying about it ; but if you had no qualms and were happy as a clam with it , then just ignore me and go about your day .  but despite my mere claims , make no mistake that i was completely and utterly edge of my seat throughout , and even sometimes curdling up by the situations that occured , not because of any kind of gore factor ( which is , thankfully for this , very minimal ) , but because the film places its characters in situations and gives them such painful things to overcome that i've frankly not seen much like it in quite awhile .  at least not since the previous worthy hitchcockian masterpiece . 
neg@ pre-review note : seeing as the only concern of body shots is " sex " , i will be forced to refer to that particular act innumerable times throughout the duration of this review .  because of this , i will try to vary word descriptions of " sex " ( meaning if you are offended by pejorative terms , and \ or your name is jerry falwell , you are kindly invited to hit the x up on the left corner of your screen ) , so if there happens to be a word you come across and cannot comprehend , fret not , it's most likely just another way of referring to " sex " .  i think we'd all agree that any word used incessantly becomes a bit monotonous so i hope you appreciate my attempt to liven up what could potentially be a very boring review .  though not as boring as the movie which makes steve forbes flat tax plan seem as lively as watching a naked mathew mconaughy play the bongos while high on god knows what .  body shots is a film so frightened of coitus that scenes of copulation are filmed ominously , in the way you'd normally expect to see a violent attack .  it's about people who think about screwing , seek it out , and talk about it .  these are things we all do , sometimes .  the characters in this film spend every waking moment pondering the simplicities of sexual acts .  their lives center around the next sexual encounter , but they seemed depressed .  it's as if fucking is all they have to look forward to after a busy workweek .  at its core body shots is a message movie , the kind of thing i could picture really progressive church groups showing to middle schoolers in order to turn them off coition .  michael cristoffer ( who directed gia , another film that treated bumping uglies as if it where evil ) is a moralist with nothing new to say .  his characters don't communicate anything of interest to each other , so cristoffer gives them an opportunity to let out their inner thoughts by speaking directly into the camera .  they voice simplistic platitudes like " i like to come " or " sex without love equals violence " .  huh ?  and yes that is as complex as this movie's observations get .  the characters are stupid and shallow , with not one registering as anything more .  the plot concerns vapid over sexed twentysomethings on an all night hunt for carnal pleasure , then the after math ( the morning after ) of such events .  we meet the characters as they speak directly to us , confiding in us with their idiotic ruminations on intimacy .  i would normally go into the characters and the actors who play them , giving you the pros and cons , but for this film i cannot .  i'm not trying to be clever or witty , but i honestly hardly remember anything that would set them apart from the others .  with the exception of trent ( played by ron livingston as a bargain basement patrick bateman ) , the rest fade into each other-- a patchwork of fake breasts , defined abs , pearly white teeth , and creamy , flawless skin .  i vaguely recall brad rowe as the sensitive one , only because his character gets the worst lines ( " sex without love equals violence " ) .  in between all the confessionals , cristoffer films everything like a headache commercial , with blurry slo mos and dramatic head turning .  the fact that this director at one point won a pulitzer prize completely baffles me .  this film is made without one iota of intelligence or insight into the generation that its tag line claims to be defining .  if body shots is meant to say that all twentysometyhings are idiotic and f * * k-obsessed , fine , i don't have any problem with a film that tries to persuade me to think a certain way , but cristoffer only gives us one side .  additionally that one side isn't even entertaining ; the characters indulge in buggery without an ounce of sexiness .  or realism .  one sexual encounter takes place outside a club on a chain link fence between the two most sensitive characters .  they suddenly have vigorous intercourse with each other for no apparent reason ( other than that they both happen to be standing next to each other ? ? ? alas , if it could only be that easy ? ? ? kidding of course ) , then , not only isn't it erotic , it isn't real .  it doesn't feel like an authentic sexual encounter .  every f * * k scene in this film ( and there are many ) is treated in the same unsexy manner .  body shots makes fornication dirtier than the most scummy porno film .  it shows us none of the pleasure that should go along with it , and most of all , it fails to show us why its characters love making it so much if they seem to hate the act of actually doing it .  the resulting search for nookie ( and you can take that cookie ? ? ? ) over one night leaves us with several tedious plot lines to follow .  the main concern is much ado over a rape that may or may not have occurred .  the film shows us two separate versions of the possible rape ( one where it is consensual the other where it is not ) and in both versions the young actress playing the possible victim gets her shirt torn off .  this is a topic that could be interestingly explored if done intelligently , and if memory serves me i can't think of one film that has done so , and yes i saw the accused which may be one of the most overrated movies of the 80's next to wall street .  unfortunately nobody gives us reason to care , not the writer , the director or the actors nearly all of whom seem to have wandered off the set of a noxious 90210 spin off .  paul thomas anderson approached boogie nights in a manner similar to what cristoffer does here , though boogie nights succeeded .  it was similarly moralistic , but it gave us two different viewpoints ; it showed us how the lifestyle of porn enticed its characters , and it showed us the possible fall-out of such a decision .  the characters in boogie nights were as idiotic as the characters are here , but anderson seemed to care about them .  he gave them heart .  cristoffer gives them nothing but raging hormones .  he preaches to us , by using his characters to preach to us .  this is not the way to get any message across .  why not just direct a public service announcement on the perils of hittin' skins ?  cristofer kind of does that , though without an ounce of insight , and with a helping of leering exploitation . 
pos@ as any sociologist will attest , your childhood and the types of parents that you have will heavily influence your happiness as an adult .  parents that are supportive and environments that are nurturing will yield children who will embrace the values and norms that can allow them to live healthy and productive lives .  but if your upbringing is marred with violence , hate and dysfunctionality , then your journey towards a happy adulthood will be saddled with psychological obstacles almost too great to overcome .  `affliction' explores how a man never truly escapes the grip of an unforgivingly nightmarish childhood .  the man in question is wade whitehouse ( nick nolte ) .  here is a man who is like any other citizen on the surface .  he is a productive member of the community and goes about his daily routine much like you and me .  but as you scratch beneath the surface , something scary and evil begins to rear its ugly head .  we see that he is a mean-tempered person .  he has a hard time taking control of his emotions , which usually gets the better of him .  he is quick to apologize for his actions and wants to be a gentle person , but something is sparking a tendency towards violence .  he also has tremendous problems with relationships .  he is divorced and his only connection to love is his daughter .  but his bearish persona and stature alienates her .  he is visibly shaken by her rejection even though she says that she loves him .  his demeanor also puts his relationship with a local townsgirl ( sissy spacek ) at risk .  she tries to remain true to him and supportive , but for women unlucky enough to attach themselves to this kind of person , relationships will ultimately end like sentences ending with an exclamation point .  finally , he is spiteful and vindictive .  as a rejected father , he initiates a custody battle that seems hopeless .  as the town's only police officer , he issues a speeding ticket to a man whose father has just died .  we can see that this is a man that is both afflicted and living with pain .  he is a prisoner and a slave to it .  he is moving towards a level of madness and insanity that defies comprehension .  what kind of force can move a man to the edge of his emotions and beyond the reach of people who genuinely care for him ?  we learn that the answer is his father ( james coburn ) .  this is the kind of father that every son would be ashamed to have and that any woman would be afraid to meet .  he is an overbearingly misogynistic and frequent drunk who rules with an iron fist .  we see his tyrannical behavior through flashbacks .  to heighten the father's churlishness , the flashbacks are shown as home video footage taken by a very frightened person .  very effective .  today , wade's dad is quite elderly , but still manages to instill fear into a grown man .  the influence that the father possesses is inescapable , and its unsavory effect clamps down hard on the tortured wade .  the result is every son's nightmare ? becoming like the father that one has always dreaded to be .  this is a terrifically presented piece of psychological drama , and nolte turns in a strong performance as a man whose pain seems to become a detriment as well as a necessity .  he's a hulking person who is still reduced to whimpers when in the presence of his father .  coburn displays heft as the bitter dad .  but , it's most certainly not saturday-night-friendly fare .  there's nothing light or fluffy about this film .  that may turn many moviegoers away .  but it's certainly worth noting that this is a well-acted drama showcasing nolte's and coburn's raw acting talents . 
neg@ it was once said that in order to truly enjoy some of todays movies or novels , you must suspend disbelief .   however , there is a distinct separation between opening your mind to ridiculous situations and believing a bunch of flat lies .  it came as no surprise to me to learn that huntingburg , indiana ( where the film is set ) , does not have a mcdonald's , a sears store , a statue of a man on a horse , nor even a dam close by .  even if you can ignore these somewhat white lies ( even though the dam is crucial to hard rains plot ) ; there is still a bunch of things that just dont gel .  firstly , morgan freeman , possibly the greatest actor alive ( after such films as driving miss daisy , the shawshank redemption and se7en ) , was cast as a shifty goon intent on stealing enough money for a healthy retirement .  he _should_ have played the town sheriff , an experienced and somewhat intriguing policeman .  as a massive flood started by a dam accident overwhelms huntingburg , its residents presumably flee as the water level steadily increases .  i say presumably simply because we never know what happened to them ; and it seems a tad strange that an entire town ( with the exception of some folk who get introduced along the way ) can vanish before the flood has actually started .  but nether the less , armored guard couriers tom ( christian slater ) and his uncle are carrying three million dollars in the back of their van .  with a heavy rainstorm causing depressing conditions and slippery roads , it doesnt take long for the van to end up stuck amongst mud and water off the side of the road .  jim ( morgan freeman ) and a small gang of thieves locate the van and attempt to steal the three million dollars .  but of course tom is more than willing to save the day , so he takes the money and hides it elsewhere in town .  the local sheriff ( randy quaid , whom most will remember as the drunken pilot in id4 ) and a couple of police men investigate the situation , but their morals are soon overpowered by greediness as each character contemplates what he/she would do with their share of the three million dollars .  director mikael salomon has made sure that hard rain ends up turning everything topsy-turvy , and whilst the film may at first appear to be a definite goodies versus baddies ,  there are numerous twists in its plot that make this a slightly more enjoyable experience .  but by the time these interesting changes occur , its far too late in the film for them to have much affect .  hard rains continuos corniness and lack of originality washes out whatever hope the script may have had ; and although its cast is somewhat appealing most of its stars act well below par .  not at one stage capturing what could have been a fabulous on screen battle between slater and freeman , we are left to reminisce on films that dared to do something different and achieved more than what was expected .  such titles as broken arrow ( slater and john travolta ) and face/off ( nicholas cage and john travolta ) come to mind as films that have mastered silver screen confrontations .  strangely enough , they were both directed by john woo and both star john travolta .  we can forgive morgan freeman for giving a slightly disappointing performance since he is newish to the action genre , but christian slater could have achieved so much more had the amount of crummy one liners been reduced and some personality added to his character .  if you had asked me whether slater could perform well enough to substantially boost a movie prior to the release of broken arrow , my answer would have been a definite no .  i now know that he has no excuse , and _can_ do better ( if you dont believe me rent a copy of broken arrow from your local video store ) .  although hard rain never really works from the start , i somehow felt feelings of missed opportunity when the credits filled the screen .  the addition of an enticing sub-plot would have given the film time to breathe , rather than try to cram 96 minutes of action and disaster into a story that cant handle anything else .  despite the fact that hard rain fails on almost every account , if your standards are low enough you may find this to be a mildly enjoyable film .  no creative flair and no inventive scenes means that hard rain does not stand up well against its many competitors , but it doesnt really matter since the last thing you would want to do after shelling about $8 . 50 is compare this to other films . 
pos@ near the end of frank capra's holiday classic , its a wonderful life , george bailey ( jimmy stewart ) is feeling down .  he has devoted his life to others , and never fulfilled his dream of leaving his small supburb town , bedford falls .  standing upon a bridge above stormy waters , he looks down , contemplating suicide .  he has potential he hasn't fulfilled -- yet , he has done so much for others .  as a young chap , his ambition was to leave his hometown of bedford falls .  but times and ambitions change .  things happen , and he's stuck .  his guardian angel is there , and shows him that . . . it's  a wonderful life .  in a whirlwind tour of the town , george sees what life would be like without him .  he learns the moral lesson , that to live is a gift .  his earthly problems are solved .  the climatic scene is a marvel .  frank capra's film is a centenial classic -- watched and re-experienced by every generation .  wonderful life is one of the few pictures of times gone by that seems as fresh , maybe fresher , then it did when it was first released .  many films of the thirties through seventies have aged poorly .  but this one is a near flawless example of how well a perfect script and timing can mesh with first-rate acting , wit and suspense , glorious music , and terrific set peices .  the only even slightly dated scenes are those at the begining in which god has a long chat with clarence , george's guardian angel .  they aren't all that bad , but they remain corny and a little out of place .  nevertheless , this is one film that deserves its place in time , cinema history , and our hearts .  it can be equally appreciated by anyone of any age .  here is one genuine masterpeice , a classic that reaches heights and ambitions near perfection .  this crackling good mixture results in a film which is at once funny , exciting , moving and uplifting .  the film itself is almost a reversal of the life of george bailey -- there isn't too much to it , but capra and the gang ( various screenwriters , composers , actors ) plumet the material to its fullest potential .  the result is a film -- though not at first intended to be pigeon-holed as a holiday film -- that will always be remembered , celebrated , and loved . 
neg@ the haunting , a film so confusing that it forgets the true meaning of a horror film : to scare us .  if you've ever seen a movie , which you probably have considering you are on this website , you should know about all of the trivia they post before a movie .  they have things like illustrations and you have to guess the movie or facts about the film .  but , the one i always like are the &quot ; other name&quot ; joke that try and rename a particular film .  for instance , the one playing before the haunting had different titles for the film , small soldiers .  they had titles like little infantry and can i get those fatigues in a smaller size ?  well , after seeing the haunting , i had a few particular names for it as well .  unfortunately , i can only post one of them , otherwise , i'd be getting some pretty angry e-mails from overprotective mothers .  that title would be the confusing .  ok , that is a pretty bad title , but it fits this film perfectly .  it basically serves up no purpose , and combined with dry dialogue and a boring and confusing plot , it completes the formula for a cinematic bomb .  liam neeson once again gets wrapped up in a film without any depth , but at least the phantom menace was exciting and had some depth .  the haunting is nothing but trash , but unfortunately , will still make a boatload of money .  before i rant and rave about how bad this film is , let me point out the few , and i stress the word few , bright spots in this film .  first , the house is great- looking .  it looks beautiful , but this is also a dark spot .  it looks so great that it is hard to be frightened by it .  this is something that rears its ugly head at all points of the film .  things look so great , that you are looking on in awe instead of being scared straight .  haunted house films have to contain one element to even be slightly successful and that is being eerie .  the hill house is not eerie .  it is beautiful , but not the least bit frightening .  ever heard of lili taylor ?  before this film i did not , but i am glad that i do now .  she gives the only satisfactory performance in the film .  despite the dry dialogue and boring/confusing concept , she manages to light up the screen every time she appears , but unfortunately , her co-stars are usually following right behind .  owen wilson , who plays luke , is the only other cast member even close to giving an admirable performance , other then taylor .  he is basically there for the comic relief , and his character development is poor in all other areas .  all of the characters are desperately underdeveloped .  wilson had potential as luke , but it seems they just needed him to add a few laughs .  liam neeson and catherine zeta-jones suffer from the dialogue and plot and should not have been in this film .  their characters must suffer from wicked mood swings because in each scene they turn from ruthless to compassionate to scared to brave and whatnot .  they just are not believable and this is the final nail in the haunting's coffin .  the plot is terrible .  the opening scene of the film is very important , but the director makes it too obvious by getting close-ups of all the things that will play a major role in the end of the film .  as i sat through the film , i kept wondering what this film was trying to accomplish .  nell , lili taylor's character , goes from the hunted to the savior .  it makes no sense and the director gives the audience no reasoning for the ridiculous changes that take place in the film .  he forces the viewer to make various assumptions and does not give any in-depth information .  for instance , the beginning of the film gives us a sense of why nell is getting involved in the program .  but , we get zilch for the other four .  plus , two of them get wiped out in the first ten minutes .  and the worst part : most horror films have killings .  for some reason , they kill off luke at the end of the film .  no reason whatsoever , just off with his head , literally .  overall , the haunting is the epitome of a bad movie .  bad plot , confusing storyline and a waste of good talent .  hopefully , liam neeson can rebound and get into a good film and be used to his full potential .  hopefully , lili taylor will be recognized for doing such a great job in such a bad film .  and hopefully , other horror films , such as the blair witch project and the haunting of hill house , will not be as bad as this one . 
pos@ big courtroom thrillers have always captivated america .  o . j .  simpson , tom capano , the menendez brothers .  all these names are synonymous to americans and courtrooms .  and , of course , courtroom dramas are not a new topic to hollywood .  whether it be john grisham's thrilling novels or television's famous dramas , the courtroom has always provided big bucks .  so when i rented a civil action , i was expecting the film to be like the rainmaker , a brilliant law film that kept viewers on the edge of their seat .  however , what i saw in a civil action was far different from what i expected , a major surprise , but fortunately , a pleasant one .  john travolta always seems to come up big when you least expect it .  no one expected him to light up the screen in grease , nor in saturday night fever .  but , whenever he gets knocked down , he always seems to come back fighting .  a civil action is not john's best performance , but a strong one that could rival any performance in 1998 .  travolta proves that a normal and believable performance can vault a film into oscar nominations .  his performance is not flashy , nor memorable , just solid .  if he delivered the only solid performance , this film would still be average .  luckily , he has a strong supporting cast .  william h . macy is probably one of the most underrated actors in hollywood .  he continues to deliver great performances one after the other , but he is still regarded as a secondary actor .  in a civil action , he delivers yet another great performance as travolta's paranoid and greedy accountant .  he is not a lovable character , but a character who stands out in your mind whenever you think of the film .  he is not one of the big time lawyers , just a measly accountant .  but , he delivers one of the best supporting roles of 1998 , but there is actually someone better in a civil action .  robert duvall is also an underrated actor .  he gets many leading roles , but is never heard when you hear of big box office draws like tom hanks , brad pitt and jim carrey .  duvall has a supporting role in this as a lawyer of the co-defendant .  duvall is magical in this role .  he is the wise teacher , who not only battles it out in the courtroom , but also manages to teach every major player a lesson , in his own twisted way .  in many non-comedic films , directors are always trying to find a way to implement a touch of comedy , to keep the audience on their toes .  unfortunately , they usually just key in on one character whose main objective is to be funny ( jar-jar binks , anyone ? ) .  however , this usually backfires because the character is never fully developed .  this is not the case in a civil action .  they have comedy coming from all sides .  whether it be duvall's inane questions or macy's sharp anger , the laughs come in a steady pace .  granted , it's not roll in the aisle funny , but it provides a nice addition to the film .  the plot is terrific- somewhat .  the setup is nice with the film actually starting with a victory in the courtroom .  then the case that will make or break jan ( travolta ) 's career rears its ugly head .  they find out the goldmine involved with the case and wind up taking it .  however , budgets soon flounder and jan finds himself in deep debt .  i will not spoil the rest , although i must speak of the one downside to the film .  the courtroom debates are great , but the actual problem they are fighting for is never fully explored .  it left me somewhat confused , although the rest of the film is terrific .  all in all , john travolta is back yet again in this great film .  his supporting cast , consisting of macy and duvall , turn in tremendous performances , which ease the load on travolta .  the film is smart , witty and thought provoking .  not only does it gauge in-court battles , but also the various tolls it can take on the major players .  a civil action provides everything a drama lover craves . 
neg@ humanities quest for knowledge never ends .  so a team of scientists and film-makers travel to the amazon to search for a legendary indian tribe .  the party consists of anthropologist steven cale ( eric stoltz ) and the camera team consisting of terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) , danny rich ( ice cube ) , gary dixon ( owen wilson ) , denise kahlberg ( kari wuhrer ) and warren westridge ( jonathan hyde ) .  early on their journey they meet paul sarone ( jon voight ) whose boat is stuck on the shore .  they agree to give him a ride to the next village .  he claims to know the area well and can be useful locating the native tribe .  very soon their friendliness backfires on the group because sarone turns out to be a snake hunter without scruples who only wants to catch a giant anaconda and sell it to a zoo .  we don't have to wait too long for the giant snake .  she just had a panther hors d'oevre and now is looking for the main course .  our heroes paddle around in the amazonas as if it were the pool in their own backyard .  no wonder giant animals mistake their splashing for a dinner bell .  our anaconda is a polite one and swallows the first victim in one big gulp .  enjoy !  so much for the first attempt to catch her .  but who would want to catch a giant snake with a fishing pole ?  our villain sarone shows his soft side when he stops terri from shooting the snake .  too bad that anaconda is just about to strangle another member of the expedition .  one by one she goes after the others .  eric stoltz is stung by a giant wasp right in the beginning and is mercifully unconcious for the rest of the adventure .  the rest of the crew keeps entertaining the viewer although not the way the makers of the movie had planned .  however the scenes without the anaconda are rather boring .  whenever the leading lady shows up we're in for a laugh .  the snake reminds us of a favorite character of a famous animated movie even if she should be an awe-inspiring monster .  her attacks always follow the same plan : one last hypnotic look - she's looking at you , kid - then she speedily wraps herself around her victim and starts to gush it down .  mostly we don't see the act of devouring .  but she looks nice when she wiggles away with her bulging middle part .  whoever did the special effects on this movie may have wanted to go to a zoo first and study some real snakes .  maybe then the anaconda model would have looked more real .  the animatronics are somewhat more believable .  but that didn't work for the strangling scenes .  don't go see the movie for the f/x .  they are everything but up-to-date .  the viewer who likes to watch the end credits will see to his/her surprise that a snake expert was a consultant for the team .  we may doubt though that he has ever seen the final result of his work .  a well known american science magazine is also mentioned in the credits , but i will refrain from naming it here to avoid further damage to its reputation .  the majority of viewer will have left the theater as soon as the credits start rolling , anyway .  what kind of audience is the target group for this movie ?  hard to say .  this can't be a serious horror movie , or can it ?  see for yourself . 
pos@ the laserman : somehow the title of writer-director-producer peter wang's film conjures up images of superheroes , like ultraman and spiderman .  you kind of expect an adventure flick about a crime fighter who can shoot laser beams from his fingertips .  as it turns out , the laserman _is_ about crime and about laser beams , but there aren't any superheroes .  instead , wang's film is populated by a group of refreshingly off-beat characters living in the ultimate cultural melting pot : new york city .  the laserman is a comic brew which celebrates ethnicity , eccentricity , and electricity .  the film tells the bizarre story of arthur weiss ( marc hayashi ) , a chinese-american laser scientist whose life becomes incredibly hectic after he accidentally kills his lab assistant in an experiment .  he loses his job but finds work with a mysterious company which secretly plans to use laser technology to commit dastardly deeds .  arthur's professional life is cluttered with moral dilemmas .  his personal life , on the other hand , is cluttered with colorful friends and quirky relatives .  in fact , arthur is by far the blandest character in the film , despite a charismatic performance by hayashi ( the san francisco-based actor whose films include chan is missing and the karate kid ii ) .  it's the auxiliary characters who give the laserman its unique spark .  arthur's not-so-typical jewish mother , ruth , for example , is convinced that a chinese soul is trapped in her jewish body .  she has dyed her red hair black , she takes herbal medicine daily , and she is perpetually cooking up strange delicacies , such as matzo balls in soy sauce--the ultimate fusion of jewish and chinese cuisine .  veteran stage actress joan copeland takes the part and runs with it , almost stealing the movie in the process .  she plays ruth as a driven woman , determined to overcome her genetic heritage by immersing herself in chinese culture .  arthur's girlfriend janet ( maryann urbano ) is a kooky free-spirit who would rather meditate than copulate ; her ultimate goal is orgasm through zen meditation .  arthur's best friend , joey ( tony leung ) , is a small time thief who hustles everything from microwave ovens to machine guns .  joey is married to arthur's jewish sister , but he is also having an affair with a chinese immigrant who works in a whore house .  arthur's 11-year-old son , jimmy , played by the amazingly adorable david chan , is--horror of horrors--bad at math !  he finds it impossible to meet his father's lofty expectations .  the various people in arthur's life come together to form a rich tapestry of humanity .  like wang's earlier film , a great wall ( about a san francisco family visiting relatives in china ) , the laserman revolves around cultural differences .  every character in the film is , in some way or another , trying to find his identity--struggling to negotiate a balance between his native culture and the american way .  the movie also offers a provocative look at technology .  wang appears in the movie as lieutenant lu , a detective who is fed up with machines , even though he relies on them to do his job .  the film views technology with a wary eye , acknowledging its necessity while at the same time realizing its potential dangers .  wang raises the time-honored question of whether scientists should be held responsible for their inventions .  was einstein responsible for the a-bomb ?  is arthur weiss responsible for his lasers ?  the movie pits spirituality against technology , man against machine , and the result is a draw .  according to the film , technology has its place , but we must employ it with great forethought and caution .  ironically , by its very nature , the laserman is a triumph of technology--the technology of filmmaking .  wang's direction is exquisite , especially during the tense finale in which the director frantically cross-cuts between the various subplots , perhaps in homage to d . w .  griffith .  cinematographer ernest dickerson , who has worked on all of spike lee's films , gives the laserman a distinctive , artistic look .  mason daring's score , which includes a send-up of bach , is right on target .  the laserman is an ambitious endeavor , which is to be applauded , but it's sometimes ambitious to a fault .  wang serves up so many slices of life in the film that it's hard to digest them all .  for instance , one character ( arthur's sister ) has negligible screen time , and consequently we just don't care about her marital problems .  in weaving his web , wang has included a few too many strands .  overall , however , the laserman is a charmingly eclectic concoction .  on the surface , the film is a light and bouncy comedy-thriller , overflowing with whimsical humor and visual style .  the heavier issues emerge only when you take a deeper look at the film .  you can ponder the moral questions or you can just sit back and enjoy the absurdity of life in china town . 
neg@ one of the contributors to the destruction of the batman film franchise chris o'donnell stars in this remake of buster keaton's 1925 silent film seven chances .  now i've never seen seven chances , as i'm more of a chaplin fan than a keaton fan , but i seriously doubt that the classic version could be as insipid as this .  o'donnell plays jimmie shannon , the manager of a pool table manufacturing company .  he also fears commitment , and despite dating anne ( renee zellweger ) for over three years , he's unwilling to marry her .  his reasons ?  well he's a guy you see , and well , guys are like stallions , and they apparently don't like to be roped or something ( hey , that's the movie's explanation . . .  i'd marry renee zellweger in a second ) .  eventually it comes time for jimmie to propose , and when he does , it's the most absurd proposal ever uttered by a man ever .  he essentially says to her , " you win " and hands her a ring .  the audience should now hate this character .  i did .  then the meat of the plot presents itself .  jimmie's grandfather ( peter ustinov , completely wasted ) dies and leaves jimmie his entire estate of 100 million dollars as well as ownership of the pool table business .  however , in order to get the money and save the jobs of the factory workers , jimmie must be married before his next birthday ( which is just over 24 hours away ) .  having blown his chances with anne , jimmie proceeds to track down all his prior girlfriends and suggest a " business proposition " .  the movie wasn't half bad by this time , surprisingly .  it wasn't boring me , and even managed to read my thoughts at one point .  ustinov's character left a video will , and while he's reading the ridiculous clause in it , i thought to myself " what is this , brewster's millions ? " .  as soon as i thought it , hal holbrook's character actually says " what is this , brewster's millions ? "  it was quite surreal .  something happens though during the film's final act that caused me to sharply drop the rating it was going to receive .  up to that point , all of jimmie's prior girlfriends had turned down his " business proposition " which i felt was good .  at least the film wasn't painting women to be cold hearted gold diggers .  when jimmie has no other options , his goofy friend ( played by artie lange , making a career out of playing the goofy friend ) places an ad in the newspaper that somehow becomes a front page story .  at this point , 100 , 000 women don wedding gowns and head off to persuade jimmie to pick them to be his bride .  these women arrive at jimmie's location and immediately start bullying him about what he's looking for in a woman .  when he's had enough of their unjustified attacks , he tells the angry mob that there's been a mistake and he won't be marrying any of them .  as a result , the women proceed to chase him around the city , in hopes of catching him and tearing his limbs off .  this goes on for the rest of the film .  it's just chris o'donnell running from 100 , 000 obnoxious , greedy , angry and stupid women .  my groans of disgust could be heard for miles .  the film finally ended ( thankfully ) , but to this day i'm still groaning .  the bachelor is available on dvd from new line home video .  it contains the film in both full frame and in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , cast and crew info , and special dvd-rom features .  the original theatrical trailer is also on the disc , which contains scenes not in the film .  apparently there was even more footage of the gang of brides chasing o'donnell around the city , and at one point o'donnell is leaping from the tops of buses .  so that was bad enough to be cut , but the other 30 minutes of bride shenanigans was good ?  ugh . 
pos@ steve soderbergh's " sex , lies , and videotape , " which won the grand prize at the cannes film festival in 1989 , arguably began the resurgence of independent films .  made on a shoestring budget of $1 . 2 million , with then relatively unknown actors , it is a provocative , thoroughly original drama .  the film mostly focuses on the four central characters , all in their late 20's-early 30's .  ann ( andie macdowell ) , an unfulfilled housewife , is married to john ( peter gallagher ) , an insensitive lawyer , who , unbeknownst to her , is having an affair with her younger sister , cynthia ( laura san giacomo ) .  complicating matters even worse is graham ( james spader , who won best actor at cannes ) , john's old college buddy , who comes to stay at their house .  ann is absolutely won over by him , even though she clearly has stated that she has very little interest in sex .  that is the set-up for the last hour of the picture , and since the film is entitled , " sex , lies , and videotape , " it is best to keep the rest of the story developments at bay so that they will come as a genuine surprise .  director steven soderbergh has proven to be a wildly offbeat filmmaker , ranging from the independent , to the mainstream ( 1998's " out of sight " ) , to the downright kafkaesque ( 1997's " schizopolis " ) .  he is the type of director who obviously takes a lot of chances , and believes in the work that he does , and , " sex , lies , and videotape , " is probably his most confident , and maybe even best , to date .  the performances are superb from all four leads , but macdowell stands out in what is probably the main character .  she is always a very winning actress , but this is probably her most three-dimensional role that she has had ( with a close second being altman's 1993 mosaic , " short cuts " ) .  the other parts are perfectly cast as well , from spader's ominous graham , to gallagher's self-involved john , to giacomo's outspoken cynthia .  the final act of the film , especially , comes right out of left field , and turns out to be both shocking and oddly touching , and it would be criminal to give away the film's secrets .  suffice to say that , through one powerful sequence , ann is able to somewhat come out of her shell , and john learns a valuable lesson about honesty , as well as deception .  the film has one fault , however .  the characters are almost all emotionally cold and isolated from one another , and often unlikable .  if there had been a few extra scenes with gallagher , it probably would have helped , since his relationship with macdowell isn't quite as explored as i would have liked .   " sex , lies , and videotape , " although minorly flawed , is still easily a brave and adult motion picture that is far more mature and honest about its subject matter than the usual film .  soderbergh clearly knew what he was doing while he was making it , and the final product certainly proves this . 
neg@ when robert forster found himself famous again after appearing in " jackie brown " , he immediately signed up for a little film called " american perfekt " .  this was almost two years ago .  i waited patiently for the film to be released , but it never was .  finally , i forgot about it .  the other day , though , while i was perusing the selection of the local video store , i stumbled upon , you guessed it , " american perfekt " .  i immediately rented it and with a certain amount of glee , rushed home to view it .  having now seen the film , i understand why it never saw theatrical release .   " american perfekt " is a jumbled mess .  the storyline is non-existent .  it took me half the movie just to figure out what was going on .  and at that point , the only thing i really knew for sure was that the movie was * never * going to introduce a plot of some sort .  it wants to get by on quirkyness and so-called charm alone , and it just doesn't work .  robert forster plays a psychiatrist who picks up amanda plummer , and they head off on the road together .  along the way to no discernable destination , they run into all sorts of kooky and wacky characters .  i suppose this free-wheeling , no plot style is supposed to give the film an element of danger and excitment , but all it did was make me sleepy .  i'm all for trying new things within the realm of film , but not at the expense of coherence .  nothing in this movie makes sense .  the actions of the characters go unexplained , even when they're truly bizarre .  i'll give you an example , without giving too much away .  david thewlis has a part as a drifting con-man .  at one point , mid-way through the movie , he runs forster and plummer off the road with his car .  as he passes them , we see that his face is covered in blood .  do you think we would get an explanation as to what happened to him ?  you would think so , wouldn't you .   " american perfekt " is a waste of time .  nothing is gained from watching this movie , except maybe a migraine .  and if you do rent it , don't bother trying to figure out what's going on in the hopes that everything will be resolved by the end .  this doesn't happen .  and no explanation is given for the misspelling of " perfect " , either . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " osmosis jones " ( warner bros . )  if the farrelly brothers taught anatomy & physiology in school , no one would cut ever class .  this hip , live action/animation story begins as a monkey snatches a hard-boiled egg from frank , a zookeeper ( bill murray ) , who grabs it back , drops it , then gobbles up the contaminated morsel , explaining , " if it hits and ground and you pick it up within 10 seconds , you can eat it . "  like " fantastic voyage " ( 1966 ) , the pseudo-science animation then takes over when his body's immune system contacts traffic control as an ingested virus hits the digestive system : " be on the alert for illegal organisms ! "  eager to right " a stomach evacuation mistake " he once made , a cocky , clever , courageous white blood cell ( chris rock ) declares , " this is a crime scene ! "  and teams up with a conscientious " phi beta capsule " 12-hour cold remedy called drixenol ( david hyde pierce ) to chase down and destroy the deadly " red death " virus ( laurence fishburne ) that's determined to take frank down in 48 hours , beating ebola and e . coli to a medical record .  watch out for mucus mudslides , chaos in cerebellum hall and the detritus from booger dam ( runny nose ) , along with comic turns from molly shannon and chris elliot , plus the voices of william shatner and brandy norwood .  peter and bobby farrelly , along with writer mark hyman and animation directors piet kroon and tom sito , have turned their penchant for gross-out comedy , encompassing flatulence , festering sores and " popping a pimple without a permit , " into a funny , farrelly-funny family film .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " osmosis jones " is a wildly imaginative , original , explosive 7 .  and perhaps , as they're laughing , kids will learn where to find their uvula , along with nuggets about nutrition and hygiene . 
neg@ a big , busy boxing satire with a surprisingly paltry punch , the great white hype stars samuel l . jackson as a shameless boxing promoter whose plan to boost sagging pay-per-view revenues is to " invent " a white contender ( peter berg ) to challenge his black heavyweight " champ " ( damon wayans ) .   ( the logic is that people will pay more to see black vs . white than black vs . black . )  he may be right , in an absurdly accurate way , but the film doesn't give us a reason to care .  as a scathing sports spoof , hype is just that : unfunny , unfocused , and , at times , just plain pointless .  as a commentary on race relations , it's even * less * effective .  the dialogue is the best of this mess , lines like jon lovitz exclaiming " i cannot make caviar out of fish eggs ! "  writers tony hendra and ron shelton also do good on the street slang , though we never hear enough of it .  the script isn't strong enough , though , to support the aggressive camera work of director reginald hudlin ( house party ) .  he comes across as absolute overkill .  the great white hype * almost * turns around at the end , at the big match , when hudlin attempts an extended gag of rock-concert proportions .  with costumed dwarfs , gangsta rappers , and the " champ " dressed as death , only then do we get a glimpse of the spoof that should've been . 
pos@ in tim burton's `sleepy hollow' , there is a mysterious headless horseman who decapitates residents of the small town of the same name .  he rides a beautiful black steed and carries an imposing sword that cauterizes the wound of his victims with an immediate swipe .  burton's update on washington irving's classic tale of `the legend of sleepy hollow' offers us the mystery of the horseman , when the screenplay should have merely settled on the aspect of the horror .  writer andrew kevin walker ( `seven' ) throws in perhaps too healthy a dosage of sherlock holmes , but the visual treatment of the film is absolutely entrancing , as burton offers foggy locales and detailed costumes that are gorgeous and stirring to examine .  as `sleepy hollow' opens , we're greeted with a juicy cameo from martin landau , who won an oscar in burton's `ed wood' .  landau plays a prominent citizen of sleepy hollow , who , on a fateful carriage ride through the forest , is decapitated by an unseen horseback rider .  after two more murders haunt the residents of the quaint little town , constable ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is sent in to investigate .  landlord baltus von tassel ( michael gambon ) explains to crane that the heads have been severed from the carcass and mysteriously taken in each separate case , and that they believe the murderer is a dead hessian trooper ( played briefly by a wonderfully jarring christopher walken ) who has risen from the grave after being decapitated in the western woods .  crane is not a man of great superstition , and is determined to root out the human culprit with his assortment of gizmos and gadgets ( things i was not surprised to find in a tim burton movie ) .  first and foremost , `sleepy hollow' is a fun horror film .  as with virtually all burton movies , we are treated to a wonderful score by composer danny elfman , who has once again poured excitement and imagination into an atmospheric soundtrack that accentuates the gothic mood perfectly .  the horseman f/x are stylish and impressive , particularly in perfectly blended battle sequences involving actual actors .  but why did i enjoy `sleepy hollow' as much as i did ?  although enjoyable , it was not the numerous beheadings and the plentiful gore that spurted left and right . .  it was the light comic touch that burton applied .  the film has the sweetness of a candy apple , usually channeled through depp's wonderful performance as the lovable geek ichabod crane , who is no longer a mild-mannered school teacher but still attains his cowardly qualities .  this is certainly not the only alteration that's been made .  as the film progresses , it becomes apparent that walker is more concerned with the mystery of the murders than the murders themselves .  the momentum is slowed considerably once crane begins piecing the mystery together , because for the audience , it's not an issue we particularly wish to be solved .  it's more effective for the headless horseman to be an elusive demon than an elusive demon with an ulterior motive .  still , we are still captivated by the breathtaking technical detail and burton's keen eye to capture our attention .  the costuming is exceptional , and the dialogue is crisp and effective throughout ( it's recognizable that the script was refined by award-winning playwright tom stoppard ) .  the supporting cast exhibits more color and playfulness than many .  a blonde christina ricci is in fine form as von tassel's daughter katrina , and an unlikely romance between she and ichabod is surprisingly consistent .  walken , michael gough ( who appeared in burton's `batman' films ) and miranda richardson are all enjoyable in tackling their separate roles .  i suppose the strengths behind `sleepy hollow' lie within the central trio : director burton , constable depp and the headless horseman who hunts him down with ruthless accuracy .  all of this is not to be taken seriously , of course .  `sleepy hollow' is a lavish , frightening and altogether amusing reworking of a classic tale that many people cherished as children .  if you've got a decent head on your shoulders , you'll have the good sense to gallop off to the theater and enjoy it one last time . 
neg@ some movies ask you to leave your brain at the door , some movies ask you to believe in the impossible to really have a good time .  playing god asks just one simple , eensy , teensy thing so it can fully entertain you , it's accomplished in just four easy to follow steps : crack open your skull , scoop out your brain , squish it under your foot several times and reverse steps two and one .  congratulations , you now have all the necessary requirements to fully enjoy a whole lot of nothing .  some movies fail at the box office but you manage to see why the producers thought it could have been a good movie , others are simply good ideas that are badly executed .  then there's playing god , which enters the esteemed category of movies which seem to have grown from the union of a drunk director , actors satisfied in the knowledge that this horrible flick will have no lasting impact on their careers and a bunch of rip-offs ( or homages as they like to call it ) from other , better movies that end up looking like an unflushed toilet .  harsh ? maybe .  justified ?  hell yes !  this is a movie that is not just satisfied in ripping off other movies but feels the need to remind us of that fact every ten minutes .  for example , a gunman bursts into a garden with the two guns in his hands firing away .  this does look moderately kool , but the camera lingers on the actor for so long you can almost hear the director yelling : " oooh , look look !  john woo !  two guns blazing !  slooooow motion ! "  and if that wasn't enough , you can also hear the script grunting under the effort it must take to try and make every single line of dialogue sound like something deep and meaningful like in a tarantino movie .  poor timothy hutton gets to deliver most of the corny lines , you have to admire the effort he puts into it , this guy deserves better .  unlike most movies this one does not suffer from " stupid bad guy " syndrome , just to make things a little different this time we get stupid heroes .  example : duchovny manages to distract a bad guy by making him go into the bathroom to get some bandages .  now the bad guy is , like , stoned , man , so he leaves his shotgun next to our hero .   ( term used as loosely as possible )  survival instincts and a good dose of common sense seems to suggest grabbing the shotgun , which our hero does , but only after contemplating it for about thirty seconds .  even when he does grab it he seems unsure how to hold it , going so far as to actually wonder if he should place a finger near the trigger .  mind you , i've never fired a shotgun in my life but believe you me that the bad guy would be missing most of his vital organs , be he stoned or not .  some will argue that our hero does not have a killer instinct , the hell with that !  two fbi guys have just been shot in front me , along with one bad guy and the other looks like he might go ballistic at any second .  solution ?  boom !  i'll take the time to feel sorry about it later thank you very much .  another prime example of the idiot hero syndrome :  our boy duchovny needs to reach his girl before something bad happens to her .  he knows the head bad guy has her on the tenth floor of a building and that he might be running into a room full of people with itchy trigger fingers .  he still has his shotgun , bring it along you say ?  no thanks , i'll just ditch it in the back of my car .  and the real kicker is this : when he reaches the room and people start shooting at him he has the nerve to look surprised !  while we are on the subject of getting shot , why in hades were those fbi guys sitting with their backs to the door ?  i've got no formal training but even i know you never sit with your back to the door .  ask mr . wild bill , the first and only time he did not sit with his back to a wall cost him his life .  this is the major problem with this movie , any mook could have thought of a hundred ways to make it better .  is it so much to ask that hollywood actually put a little common sense into their characters ?  for instance :  our heroes hide at duchovny's summer home , now the bad guys could come knocking at any moment .  ok , this time our hero does get himself a gun and has it at his side most of the time .  but see , our hero is a drug addict and guess what ?  he chooses now to go clean and suffer through dt .  oh sure , he'll be really impressive when the bad guys come calling .  going clean is really honorable of him , but i would have waited until i did not need to be conscious or being able to fire a gun .  for an enjoyable performance by timothy hutton , plot holes the size of godzilla , getting our intelligence insulted and several " oh come on ! "  moments . 
pos@ garry shandling makes his long overdue starring film debut as an alien from a planet populated only by genetically created men , who are looking to take over the earth by propagating their own species there .  shandling is chosen for the mission , is given the name harold anderson , and is set up as a banker in seattle .  after a few disastrous " mating " attempts , he figures his best bet will be susan ( annette bening ) , a former alcoholic who eventually tells harold that she won't have sex again until she gets married .  the leader of harold's planet ( ben kingsley ) tells him to marry her , and harold is soon exposed to all the " joys " of married life .  despite its title and premise which seem to imply that this is some jerry lewis vehicle from the late 1960s , what planet are you from ?  is a very funny movie .  the plot ( which the film wisely doesn't linger on the specifics of for too long ) is of course nothing more than framework for the jokes , most of which work very well .  the material may be considered crude and tasteless by many , and i might have thought so as well had shandling not been the lead .  but he brings a sort of pathetic charm to the role , and it's his performance that makes the film truly funny instead of just offensive .  plus if you think about it , what planet are you from ?  could have very easily gone the gross-out route ( considering that shandling's character is given a detachable penis that vibrates and hums when he gets excited ) .  we never see anything though , it's all implied , which gives the film a touch of class amidst its crudeness .  i'm glad to see that someone in hollywood still understands the concept of " less is more " .  the talented supporting cast certainly adds to one's enjoyment of this film .  annette bening ( oddly playing a merged version of her real estate salesman character from american beauty and her ditzy spiritualist character from mars attacks ! )  does a fine job keeping up with shandling and makes a good catalyst for his brand of humor .  she even manages to pull off a potentially disastrous scene where she has to perform a rather goofy rendition of " high hopes " for a lengthy period of time .  ben kingsley , john goodman and greg kinnear all fare well in their performances as well , and linda fiorentino . . .  good lord , there should be some sort of law stating that no woman can be that sexy .  everything about her character in this film oozes raw sexuality .  what planet are you from ?  is available on dvd from columbia tristar home video .  the disc gives you the choice of either watching the film full frame or in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 ( and enhanced for 16x9 televisions .  also included on the disc as extras : a decent making-of featurette , an isolated score track , talent files for the cast and crew , and the film's original theatrical trailer ( as well as trailers for wolf , men in black , bugsy and as good as it gets ) .  when i first saw that the disc featured an isolated score track , i actually laughed .  how great could the music for a silly little comedy be for it to get it's own isolated track ?  well as it turns out , it's a mighty fine score from carter burwell ( fargo , the hudsucker proxy ) that i enjoyed listening to again while i typed up this review .  kudos to columbia tristar for adding that feature to the disc .  what planet are your from ?  was unjustly ignored in theaters , and i hope it finds its deserved audience on home video .  this fine dvd is certainly a great way to see it .  [r] 
neg@ late in down to you , the lead female character ( julia stiles ) states her greatest fear is having an " artificial conversation " with her boyfriend ( freddie prinze jr . ) .  the irony of this statement will not be lost on audience members who have not yet walked out , fallen asleep , or otherwise given up on this pathetic attempt at romantic comedy .  the film is a multi-million dollar testament to everything artificial .  filled with characters , motivation , plot and dialogue that ring fake and shallow at every step this is an unquestionable disaster .  prinze plays a college student intent on playing the field until he falls for stiles' freshman co-ed .  at first the movie seems to be an attempt to string along scenes with the sole purpose of out-doing the previous in how " cute " it can be .  the happy couple " psychoanalyze " each other ; they pick out a song because , as prinze's dj mother ( lucie arnez ) explains , every couple needs a song ; he smells her shampoo ; she scratches his chest in the morning to let him know she wants to make love .  then , in standard romantic comedy style , things fall apart .  why ?  well , because they have to .  otherwise the couple can't make up and live ( presumably ) happily ever after .  down to you exists outside the realm of normal logic .  scenes do not connect to each other and it often seems to be attempting some sort of surrealism , but this is handled so poorly that everything comes off random and stupid instead .  a picnic scene involving the six key characters is just bizarre , not only for the stretched logic of these people hanging out together , or even knowing each other , but mostly because an unusual amount of screen time is dedicated to a goat .  the supporting characters are remarkably flat , and insultingly ridiculous as well .  stiles' best friend ( rosario dawson ) is a pot head , prinze's roommate ( shawn hatosy ) is a girl crazy fool who can't meet women , and then there are the porn stars ( zak orth and selma blair ) .  he is one of those famous porn stars who is frequently interviewed on television , does the college lecture circuit , and stars in high budget costume epic porns that are shot on film .  you know , the average porn star .  the costume epic idea gives him a reason to appear in a different ridiculous outfit everytime he's on screen , the porn angle exists just so there can be a couple of stupid sex jokes .  she is a porn star mostly so we know she's slutty , so her very existence will make stiles jealous and prinze tempted .  attempts at drama ( which means julia is going to cry ) include a pregnancy scare and the big break up .  these characters are so insipid only the most forgiving viewer would be manipulated by these weak scenes .  what happened here ?  the cast is full of likable , promising , young actors ( stiles especially seems to be going places ) .  writer/director kris isacsson has simply given them material so weak not even seasoned pros could pull it off .  in fact the whole film feels like a reworking of last year's extremely unpleasant the story of us , for teen audiences .  the direction is film-school-grad obvious .  it's stylish in a hugely self conscious way which throws in split screen , a pointless parody of " cops , " characters walking into the flashbacks of other characters , and a hilariously cheesy airport meeting between prinze and stiles where all the extras move in fast motion while the couple moves in extreme slow motion .  plus , the whole story is told flashback style , narrated by prinze and stiles directly addressing the camera .  this is the second film in a row ( following wing commander ) starring freddie prinze jr . which should have premiered on the aisles of the local blockbuster but was likely saved from that fate due to the fluke success of she's all that .  if he doesn't start making better choices fast his future films won't be so lucky . 
pos@ i was born in 1970 , which makes me barely old enough to remember bell buttons , 8 tracks and disco .  however , since i was 17 years old i've seen more than my share of adult films .  i mention this only because i thinks its important to state up front that i'm not against pornogrpahy .  i've seen enough of these films to know the range of content and quality available .  director paul thomas anderson's boogie nights offers us a view into the world of porn during the period considered to be the golden age of adult cinema , the mid to late 70s .  this was the period when x-rated movies were real movies , shot on film , shown in movie theaters and even reviewed by legitimate critics .  this was an age when porn directors actually aspired to make innovative often educational films , films that attempted to tell a real story .  one of the more fascinating aspects of this film is how , like in an any other billion dollar industry , the creative visionaries tend to be ignorant to the trends that will soon make them obsolete .  in this case , the arrival of the now ubiquitous videocassette .  burt reynold's manages to resuscitate his career portraying such an auteur , known as jack horner .  horner's has a steady " family " of performers , some of whom live in his plush l . a . home .  but in the world of porn , performers are a commodity - the fresher , the better .  when horner scouts a fresh faced stud bussing tables at his favorite discotheque , he decides to add him to his stable .  it is a pairing that leads to a meteoric rise and fall for a young man reaching his prime and an old man rapidly speeding past his .  as directed by anderson , the camera moves through many of the scenes with an eerie omnipresence and an almost childlike curiosity to peer beyond the closed door .  boogie nights provides a voyeuristic peep into the underbelly of l . a . 's hardcore film scene .  but the peep show doesnut let us walk away when the titillation ends .  the downside of voyeurism is sometimes we end up seeing things we wish we hadnut .  by the film's final image , what we we once found titillating has now become a grim reminder of the vanity of fame and the high price of realizing your dreams .  boogie nights is not about sex .  it does not glorify porn or the lifestyles of the performers .  in fact , the film isn't really about pornography at all .  pornography is merely the setting to tell a compelling story about a lost and forgotten group of people who form their own sub-culture to find acceptance of who they are .  the film goes to brilliant , often hilarious and sometimes harrowing lengths to show us that the people who choose to produce or perform in these films are generally not all that bright and lack the basic tools to function in the mainstream world .  yet , like in the lauded tarantino films , these people still have their own moral code , their own concepts of integrity and their own needs to experess themselves creatively .  the characters we meet are like a road map of dysfuntion .  first stop , the den mother ( julianne moore ) in denial about her addiction to cocaine as she tries to retain custody of her son .  second stop , the cuckold crewman ( william h . macy ) who keeps discovering his wife having sex with anyone and everyone ( the wife is played in hilarious cameos by real-life porn star nina hartley ) .  but the driving force behind the plot is 17 year old eddie adams .  eddie is blessed with a natural endowment so famous that people actually pay just to see it .  with no real ambition of his own , he hooks up with jack horner to fullfill his destiny of fame .  his alcoholic mother , clearly dissatisfied with her own lot , abuses him verbally and drives him out of the house .  horner introduces him to amber waves ( moore ) who immediately adopts him , a nuclear family is born .  the surrogate relationship that develops between amber waves and her " babies " provides some of the films most poignant scenes .  clearly , she is not even fit to manage her own life , let alone nurture these lost children .  but the need to love and be loved is so strong , they easily ignore the dangers of the less subtle addiction she introduces them to .  even the viewer is somehow lulled into feeling like the love she offers is similar to being in a real family .  then again , perhaps its not so different from real families at all .  eddie adams , who later takes on the screen name " dirk diggler " , is skillfully acted by former pop-star , mark wahlberg .  i say " former " pop star because with this performance wahlberg can officially quit his day job .  this is bold and brave territory for such a young man .  he pulls it off marvelously .  wahlberg is a " big , bright star " with a big bright future .  boogie nights plays very much in the spirit of the people versus larry flynt , without the first amendment preachiness .  its intimate studies of character make it the superior film .  wahlberg's surprising performance is on par with woody harrelson's .  but in my opinion , boogie nights , is not the best film of the year .  i got the feeling that itus 2 1/2 hour running time could have been cut by 15 or 20 minutes without losing any of its resonance .  still , if the subject matter of this film intimidates you , thereus no doubt that once you start watching boogie nights you may still feel like its not your thing , but youull find yourself grooving to it anyway . . . ya  know , kinda like disco . 
neg@ how do films like mouse hunt get into theatres ?  isn't there a law or something ?  this diabolical load of claptrap from steven speilberg's dreamworks studio is hollywood family fare at its deadly worst .  mouse hunt takes the bare threads of a plot and tries to prop it up with overacting and flat-out stupid slapstick that makes comedies like jingle all the way look decent by comparison .  writer adam rifkin and director gore verbinski are the names chiefly responsible for this swill .  the plot , for what its worth , concerns two brothers ( nathan lane and an appalling lee evens ) who inherit a poorly run string factory and a seemingly worthless house from their eccentric father .  deciding to check out the long-abandoned house , they soon learn that it's worth a fortune and set about selling it in auction to the highest bidder .  but battling them at every turn is a very smart mouse , happy with his run-down little abode and wanting it to stay that way .  the story alternates between unfunny scenes of the brothers bickering over what to do with their inheritance and endless action sequences as the two take on their increasingly determined furry foe .  whatever promise the film starts with soon deteriorates into boring dialogue , terrible overacting , and increasingly uninspired slapstick that becomes all sound and fury , signifying nothing .  the script becomes so unspeakably bad that the best line poor lee evens can utter after another run in with the rodent is : " i hate that mouse " .  oh cringe !  this is home alone all over again , and ten times worse .  one touching scene early on is worth mentioning .  we follow the mouse through a maze of walls and pipes until he arrives at his makeshift abode somewhere in a wall .  he jumps into a tiny bed , pulls up a makeshift sheet and snuggles up to sleep , seemingly happy and just wanting to be left alone .  it's a magical little moment in an otherwise soulless film .  a message to speilberg : if you want dreamworks to be associated with some kind of artistic credibility , then either give all concerned in mouse hunt a swift kick up the arse or hire yourself some decent writers and directors .  this kind of rubbish will just not do at all . 
pos@ casting " doogie howser " star neil patrick harris as mind-reading military intelligence is only one of the guilty pleasures of " starship troopers , " a hugely entertaining , mega-budgeted sci-fi yarn directed by paul verhoeven , who's making quite a recovery from his 1995 g-string epic " showgirls . "  sure , " starship troopers " qualifies as cinematic junk food , but that's forgivable when the junk food is this tasty .  everyone needs a high-calorie change-of-pace from fall's onslaught of costume dramas and other assorted oscar bait , and " troopers " does the job admirably despite its flaws .  for its first hour , " starship troopers " plays like a cheeky futuristic hybrid of " saved by the bell " and " g . i .  jane . "  in the distant years ahead , high school grad johnny rico ( casper van dien ) signs up for federal service along with his girlfriend carmen ( denise richards ) ; he gets accepted into the mobile infantry but she wants to travel to the fleet academy to become a starship pilot , so the couple is broken up .  but there's temptation awaiting both of them -- johnny's is in the form of an old friend ( dina meyer ) also in the infantry and still harboring a secret crush , while carmen attracts the eye of her flirtatious instructor ( patrick muldoon ) .  personal rivalry and sexual jealousy carry over into the final 65 minutes , when an impending alien menace begins making good on its threatening presence and obliterates part of south america , killing johnny's parents and destroying his home .  our weakening , lovesick protagonist is given new reasons to stick around the mobile infantry , and is dispatched with a group of fellow fighters to the aliens' home planet , where he will head up a ground assault to end the threat for good .  but the enemy is far smarter , more diabolical and numerous than the good guys give them credit for , and after an initial walloping , they must re-examine their strategy .  the exposition -- played like a futuristic soap opera -- is silly , but aware of its own ridiculousness enough to merit more smiles than groans .  once we get past the campy character introductions and the numerous ( but never boring ) training sessions , " starship troopers " really kicks into high gear .  its last half is all gruesomely violent action -- a fury of severed limbs , decapitations , disembowelments , brain removal , explosions and other jolt-inducers that are really going to please the 13- and 14-year-old boys lucky enough to dodge getting carded or caught on their way into this deservedly r-rated show .  the creature design and special effects are amazing as expected , and their interaction with the human actors are a realistic , imaginative high point .  it's nice to see intergalactic beasties that aren't too derivative of the titular menace from " alien . "  these monsters are appropriately terrifying sights , especially the arachnids , a spider-scorpion-crab combo that's all sharp talons and even sharper legs .  they attack in packs of hundreds , and it's a funny , scary sight to see these bugs take repeated hits and still crawl , jerk and struggle towards their intended victims in a determined , gooey mess .  it matters not that they actually have a laughable master plan in mind ( ask yourself if a species like this seems capable of carrying out such a plot ) ; these sequences of insect warfare are numerous , bloody and immensely satisfying .  the occasional dramatic moments -- one cast member's death , the final resolution to johnny's love triangle -- are botched , a testament to how " starship troopers " fails to create any strong , outstanding characters .  these bland ken-and-barbie archetypes serve the story adequately enough to keep any distractions at arm's length , but restrain the film from achieving a higher ground a la " star wars , " where even the slightest aliens had definite personality .  the acting is decent ( but never spectacular ) ; most of the performers hail from aaron spelling territory -- smallish roles on " beverly hills 90210 " and/or " melrose place " -- and it occasionally shows .  van dien , for example , is limited but perfectly likeable .  in smaller parts are the afore-mentioned neil patrick harris as johnny's best friend and jake busey ( gary's son ) as johnny's sidekick ; the latter excels at playing creeps ( see " the frighteners " or " contact " ) but seems off-kilter as a second banana .   " starship troopers " is based on the novel by robert heinlein , a sci-fi writer who hasn't exactly seen any recent adaptation justice done to any of his books what with 1994's howler " the puppet masters . "  but the overall familiarity to the " alien " trilogy -- and the promise of great gobs of gore -- could act as a crowd-drawer .  its own possible influence , however , might well work against it when the franchise continuation " alien : resurrection " opens in a few weeks .  we will know then which film to crown as the best summer movie of the fall . 
neg@ carry on at your convenience is all about the goings-on in the factory of a toilet manufacturer , wc boggs ( kenneth williams ) .  once they have won an order to manufacture 1000 bidets in two months and charles coote ( charles hawtrey ) has designed a suitable model , the factory employees set to work but are interrupted by union representative vic spanner ( kenneth cope ) and friend bernie hulke ( bernard bresslaw ) who call them out on strikes on the slightest pretext .  meanwhile , chief foreman sid plummer ( sid james ) is growing tired of his wife beattie ( hattie jacques ) and her budgie .  he would much rather live next door with fellow boggs worker chloe moore ( joan sims ) but once he discovers that the budgie can predict the winners of horse races , he is over the moon and flush with money .  his daughter , myrtle plummer ( jacki piper ) , is going out with wc's son lewis boggs ( richard o'callaghan ) and this causes conflict on the staff day out to the seaside when vic spanner vies for her attentions .  in the end , if the strike does not cease , boggs will have to close down his factory , but the support of a group of women led by coote's wife-to-be and spanner's mother , agatha spanner ( renee houston ) , try to resolve the situation .  also , sid realises that his budgie has caused him nothing but trouble since it started predicting horse race winners .  there are some good performances , as usual , from sid james and kenneth williams in their standard roles .  charles hawtrey is third billing but only appears in a few scenes .  his part is mildly amusing .  richard o'callaghan is appealing as bogg's stuck-up son , patsy rowlands is funny as miss withering , bogg's assistant , and renee houston is terrific in her small part as agatha .  however , sole acting honours go to hattie jacques as beattie plummer .  although her character is not directly involved with the main storyline , she manages to input a great deal of pathos and feeling into her character .  a marvellous performance from a marvellous actress .  the film suffers from annoying performances by bernard bresslaw and especially kenneth cope .  in his carry on debut , cope overdoes his role as spanner making him so annoying as to be unfunny .  joan sims returns as the love interest ( instead of barbara windsor ) .  sims' 'usual' part as the downtrodden wife was taken by hattie jacques .  additionally , bill maynard as fred moore is very poor .  this carry on movie tries it best to entertain the viewer : - the locations and wealth of characters are appealing .  however , the toilet humour becomes tiresome very quickly and some of the performances leave a lot to be desired .  this movie does not know where it is going .  it was made in 1971 and talbot rothwell the scriptwriter seems to be in two minds whether to go for 'bluer' jokes or to maintain the 'innocent' jokes success of most of its predecessors .  that is why this film suffers .  a minor carry on film whose major asset is the performance by hattie jacques .  the new 'minor-regulars' such as o'callaghan and piper are not able to enliven the movie and the toilet humour becomes humourless after a while . 
pos@ i had a chance to see a sneak preview of city slickers ii on campus last night .  i went in with the expectation of a film with the similar flavor which made the original such a success : personal growth and insightful humor about life .  i came away somewhat disappointed in this regard , getting some of the latter and not much of the former .  the basic plot revolves around billy crystal , who plays mitch robbins , turning forty .  he's now become the station manager of the radio station in which he worked in the original .  he's given a job at the radio station to his best friend , played by daniel stern , out of sympathy while stern's character works through his divorce .  his loser younger brother ( john lovitz ) comes to mitch's house to bum a money and place to live , all while mitch and his wife try to celebrate his birthday .  during the celebration , mitch discovers what appears to be a treasure map in curly's ( the cattle drive leader in the original played by jack palance ) old hat .  after a business trip to las vegas , crystal , stern , and lovitz stay a few extra days to go off in search of the treasure .  on the way , they run into curly's twin brother , duke , played by ( you know who ) jack palance .  first of all , the cinematography was beautifully done , especially the outdoor scenes in the desert .  the scenes are such that i would like to see some of those sights filmed myself .  there is some character development during the film .  the actors remain true to their characters and play them well , without overplaying the jokes .  the movie is a good basic adventure , with enough plot twists to provide for an ending that is difficult to predict .  the movie is paced well , but with a couple slow spots in the middle and towards the end .  humor-wise , the film has a good number of jokes which maintained my interest throughout the film .  there are memorable moments like when stern is bitten by a snake , but there are fewer jokes to laugh at in the sequel ( surprise , surprise for a sequel , right ? ) .  however , the slight bitter aftertaste i have with this film has to do mainly with the film's manipulation of the audience .  the film tries to pull your heart-strings too much regarding how close the characters are to each other , like when mitch had decided to suck the snake marrow out of his best friend's butt .  this is done again when the gang meets up with some members of the cattle drive group from the original .  there were also some parts which appeared unrealistic , like whether the stampede would start in the way it did or why they didn't worry more about water while tromping around the desert .  some strenuous stretches of the imagination are required here .  since the objective of the gang is to find gold and get rich ( unlike finding themselves in middle age like in the original ) , i also found it harder to empathize with the characters during their journey .  overall , i'd say that the film is an entertaining and humorous adventure with some story-line deficiencies making it less worthy than the original .  it may be worth the full price of admission , but a matinee would be a better bargain . 
neg@ you should have heard the old guys in the crowded bathroom following the " odd couple ii " sneak preview .  they were as happy a group of men as i've ever encountered .   " what a great movie , " exclaimed one gent at the urinal , " everything was so true ! "   " yeah , " laughed a man standing next to him , " i drive as slow as that one guy did .  my kids give me holy hell for it ! "   " and peeing is a big part of my day , just like with felix , " chuckled another fellow , as he fastened his trousers up around his nipples and prepared to rejoin his wife .  if you're over 60 and in the habit of driving at least 20 miles per hour below the posted speed limit , " neil simon's the odd couple ii " may be just the film for you .  others will likely be less charitable .  while " the odd couple ii " is amiable enough , neil simon's shockingly lazy screenplay feels like a slapped-together tv reunion show , suffering from wheezing situation comedy set-ups and jokes straight out of the borscht-belt .  simon , once the toast of broadway , has apparently shifted his sights from the great white way to the neighborhood multiplex in branson , missouri .  the contrived story , involving the marriage of their kids , provides the excuse for a reunion between oscar madison and felix unger , who haven't seen each other in 17 years .  the former roommates fly into california from their respective homes for the wedding and , quite literally , run into one another at the airport .  they take off in a rental car for the ceremony in san molina , get lost and have a series of " wacky " adventures on the road .  jack lemmon and walter matthau reprise their roles as felix the neat freak and oscar the slob .  while there is an undeniable chemistry between the pair , the impact of their reunion is lessened by the fact that they've headlined three films together since 1993 : " grumpy old men , " " grumpier old men " and " out to sea . "  still , the two veteran actors are fun to watch .  matthau , whose magnificently rumpled face looks like a big pile of laundry with eyes , has a field day as oscar , the crown prince of the curmudgeons .  lemmon , looking pastier than usual , is fine as the ever- annoying felix , who still punctuates his chronic whining with occasional allergic honks of " phnah !  phnah ! "  despite their bickering , the characters have real affection for each other , providing a welcome respite from the non-stop barrage of insults that marked their previous three films together .  unfortunately , matthau and lemmon's charm isn't enough to compensate for simon's hack script , which wouldn't pass muster even on a upn sitcom .  one contrived situation follows another , lathered with enough stale one- liners to supply a dozen would-be comics on open-mike night at the local comedy club .  if someone drags you to this film and you find yourself as bored as i was , try entertaining yourself by counting the product placements .  burger king gets one , as does the el pollo loco taco joint , but budget rent-a- car really hits the jackpot .  between script references to their business and shots of signs and stickers bearing their company name , i couldn't keep count of all the plugs .  i did , however , keep track of some of the swearing .  i came up with four " god-damns , " three " shitheads " and two " fucks . "  the inclusion of those particular profanities seemed odd for a film aimed at an older audience , but the theater full of seniors appeared to have no problem with them , howling like crazy every time the boys let rip with a naughty word .  it's sad that a writer of neil simon's stature has grown desperate enough to resort to swearing for cheap laughs , but not surprising when you look at what else gets passed off as humor in this tepid exercise .  one running gag involves oscar and felix's inability to remember the name of the town where the wedding is to be held .  at one point , the men actually spend 30 seconds just free-associating , riffing off variants of the word " san . "  the sequence is so creatively bankrupt that it is simply embarrassing .  one of the oldest maxims of film-going is " beware of movies that use the author's name in the title . "   " neil simon's the odd couple ii " is no exception to the rule .  while the production has enough minor pleasures to warrant a tv viewing on some lazy sunday afternoon , it has no business playing in a movie theater .  of course , there's a bathroom full of old guys who would strongly disagree with every word i've written , and would probably whip my " young-whippersnapper " ass to boot .  one thing's for sure , though .  they'll never catch me in a car chase . 
pos@ an indian runner was more than a courier .  he * became * the message he was carrying .  what danger is a bear , to a message ?  i used to think sean penn was an immature , arrogant , photographer- punching , madonna-marrying , loudmouth .  but all that has changed now .  the guy has grown up .  and that's not all .  it seems that sean penn has talents both as a writer and a director , if this film is any indication .  one might imagine a movie with plenty of ruthless rage and showy machismo , given penn in charge of bronson and and hopper .  but , no .  this film is about a real struggle , and the victories and defeats are not simple .  penn lets the story unfold at a pace dictated by the lives of the characters , without unnecessary rush or flash .  the focus of the story is two brothers .  david morse is the brother who has grown up in the small midwestern town in which they were raised , tending a failing farm and finally becoming a police officer .  viggo mortensen is the wild brother , whose wild behavior seems to be a reaction to some ancient pain that he can't name , much less resolve .  the film picks the story up on the day when mortensen returns from vietnam , and morse coincidentally encounters an armed youth fleeing for the state line .  it becomes clear that some kind of conflict threatens the link that the brothers once shared .  the film is unobtrusive , simple , direct , plain , and sincere .  it isn't exactly perfect , but its sincerity is well invested in the struggle of the two brothers to identify the sickness before it destroys them .  life seems to move forward a little faster than they can get a handle on their problems .  this is a good film without big budget sets , or big name stars pushed into your face .  in fact , i'm reviewing it because i suspect that it may not get much marketing .  there were perhaps 10 others at the showing i saw .  i thought the structure was clean and not oversimplified , though there are a few free-form sections which also work very well .  the obligatory 1960s music seemed a little cliche , but what are you going to do--this movie * does * take place in the 1960s after all .  in my opinion , it is worth full-price admission . 
neg@ sylvester stallone has made some crap films in his lifetime , but this has got to be one of the worst .  a totally dull story that thinks it can use various explosions to make it interesting , " the specialist " is about as exciting as an episode of " dragnet , " and about as well acted .  even some attempts at film noir mood are destroyed by a sappy script , stupid and unlikable characters , and just plain nothingness .  who knew a big explosion could be so boring and anti-climactic ?  unless you saw " blown away " . . .   " the specliast " of the title is none other than action star sylvester stallone ( in comeback #19 , i think ) , who plays a quiet , hermit-like bomber who was once a bomb expert with the army or something , but who suffered a change of heart when he and his assistant ( james woods , who shows us exactly what over-the-top is , other than another bad sly film ) accidentally killed some innocent people during a job .  his credo is killing bad people , not innocents .  and that's why he makes big bombs .  so anyway , into his life steps the seductive sharon stone , who is basically the girlfriend/moll of the stupid son ( eric roberts ) of a cuban/miami kingpin ( rod steiger , in an indecipherable accent , which is sometimes cuban , sometimes brando , sometimes scottish , etc ) .  turns out sharon is actually using her boyfriend so she can kill him , since he killed her parents when she was young .  so she calls sly , leaves messages with him , sends him e-mail , etc , about planting a bomb to kill roberts , which sly listens to obsessively , and while he works out naked .  yea .  also into his life , though again , comes woods , who has been tipped off by stone to catch sly .  using the cops , he tries to set up traps , none which really work , so when sly calls him , he goes ballisitic on his ass over the phone , getting so worked up by saying his must-be-improvised speeches that he seems to pop the vein in his head wide open .  these are the most exciting scenes in the film , and woods becomes the only ounce of entertainment in the film .  the film tries to offer us a moody film noir , except with explosions , but comes up completely snake-eyes .  it's just a pretend film noir , making it a big waste of time .  and for action buffs , the action scenes are pretty lame , with some really unrealistic-looking special effects ( a penthouse being blown off of a hotel looks like a piece of cardboard falling into a tub ) .  then there's the much-discussed sex scene between sly and stone , which are about as mispaired a couple as rachel and ross on " friends . "  their sex scene is more nauseating then sexy , because it shows us more of sly than stone .  now let's guess who we'd rather see naked , okay ?  stone's small but perky breasts , which we've seen more times than harvey keitel's dick , or stallone's veiny ass , which isn't usually shown for a very good reason ?  i know i can't really judge it as a flaw of the film , but come on .  the worst flaw of the film is this : it's boring .  i mean , i was on caffeine when watching it , but my friend fell asleep only to be woken up by james woods ranting .  but a good movie does not james woods going nuts make .  if you're in for some fun action , rent sly's earlier " demolition man , " which sucks too , but in a much more entertaining fashion .  skip this dull film , unless you want to see woods , or make fun of steiger's accent , or see stone's breasts again . 
pos@ plot : good ol' texan kid suddenly gets to play first-string quarterback on his high school team's football team , in a town where football is considered religion .  the coach is just about the biggest a-hole you'd ever want to meet , who will do practically anything to win .  the good ol' texan boy does not approve of said man's methods .  critique : a fun football movie .  this film was obviously geared towards the teen market , with mtv behind its production , a big tv star actor in the lead role , rockin' hip music galore , and plenty of t&a .  having said that , i enjoyed the look and feel of the movie , thought james van der beek gave a solid performance , loved the slick sounds , and yup , loved that t&a !  i actually thought this was a comedy going in , but overall , it plays more towards the dramatic , than a comedy .  i also enjoyed jon voight's performance as the stubborn dick coach , as well as many of the other character players on the team .  this is not a classic film by any stretch of the imagination , but it might teach some kids the hard lessons behind the " fun " game of football , or just allow them to have a good time for about an hour and forty-five minutes in the movie theatre ( or in the comfort of their own home , depending on where you watch this stuff . )  all in all , i would definitely watch this movie if you like football , play football or want your kid to succeed in high school football .  you could also watch it if you like teen flicks with a lot of cute guys and girls running around doing their stuff .  and did i mention the t&a ?   : )  little known facts about this film and its stars : james van der beek actually started acting after a concussion stopped him from playing football in real life .  he is the oldest of three children , and his father is a cellular phone salesman while his mom runs a gymnastics studio .  he's born in connecticut and received $200 , 000 for his role in this film .  actor scott caan , who plays football player " tweeder " in this film , is the son of famed actor james caan in real life .  that's right , he's sonny's son !  actress amy smart , who plays van der beek's girlfriend in this movie , also played the main star's girl in the 1999 film outside providence ( 6 . 5/10 ) .  screenwriter w . peter iliff also had a part in writing the screenplays for the 1992 harrison ford film , patriot games , and the keanu reeves surfing flick , point break .  director brian robbins might be best remembered as the " cool dude " from the tv series " head of the class " .  his name was eric mandrian and he generally wore a long , black trench coat on the show .  the book mox ( james van der beek ) is reading on the sidelines in this movie , hidden inside the team's playbook , is " slaughterhouse-five " by kurt vonnegut , jr . the high school fight song played at the pep rally is the texas a&m war hymn . 
neg@ after 1993's " falling down , " i hoped that joel schumacher would mature into a great director .  since then he has offered us two so-so adaptations of john grisham novels ( " the client " and " a time to kill " ) and two batman movies that lowered the standards of that franchise .  although these disappointments dampened my enthusiasm for schumacher's potential , the publicity for his latest release , " 8mm , " raised new hope .  it promised to be something unusual .  it wasn't .  the plot goes like this : tom welles ( nicolas cage ) is a private eye who is hired by a wealthy woman , allegorically named mrs . christian ( myra carter ) , to investigate an 8mm movie found among her late husband's belongings .  the movie appears to be a snuff film in which a teenage girl is raped and murdered by a man in a leather mask ( who reminds me of bane in schumacher's " batman & robin " ) .  because murders can be realistically simulated in movies , mrs . christian wants tom to discover if the girl is alive or dead .  by combing through missing persons reports , tom finds the girl's name and tracks her to los angeles .  with the aid of max california ( joaquin phoenix ) , a video store clerk ( and another symbolic name ) , tom wanders through the underworld of pornography in search of snuff .  the plot bears an obvious resemblance to paul schrader's " hardcore , " in which a father goes deeper and deeper into the industries of porn and sex to find his missing daughter .  both films are modeled on dante's " the inferno , " of course ; " 8mm " makes that connection overly obvious by casting max as virgil and having him constantly tell tom that they were heading toward a meeting with the devil .   " hardcore " is a much more subtle and meaningful film .   " 8mm " had a lot of promise .  in its better moments it's an examination of violence as entertainment and of the beast within even a nice guy like tom .  one moment of the first sort : when we first meet max he's reading truman capote's " in cold blood " underneath the cover of a porn novel .   " in cold blood " was the father of the true-crime genre , which is the literary equivalent of snuff films .  max promises that we will see examples of the second theme when he tells tom , " dance with the devil and the devil don't change ; the devil changes you . "  tom does change-i'll let you discover the specifics for yourself-but not permanently .  schumacher and screenwriter andrew kevin walker didn't have the guts to take tom so far down the dark tunnel that he couldn't come back .   ( walker's " seven " did a much better job on that theme by refusing to compromise ) .  cage tries hard to pull it off , but the script doesn't give him enough to work with .  phoenix walks away with the movie-he's smart , charming , and funny .  other cast members include " fargo " 's peter stormare camping it up as porn auteur dino velvet and " the sopranos " 's james gandolfini as a soulless porn merchant who pushes tom too far .  in the last analysis , since " 8mm " falls short of its pretensions and its promise , its just another private eye story in the raymond chandler/ross macdonald tradition of having the detective uncover the depravity behind the glossy facade of wealth and privilege .  however , unlike other predictable fare in the genre-last year's " twilight , " for example- " 8mm " is especially disappointing because it could have been much more than it is . 
pos@ the question isn't why has grease been reissued .  the answer to that one is easy : to celebrate the movie's 20th anniversary and to make more bucks for paramount's coffers because john travolta is once again a hot commodity .  no , the question that ought to be asked is : should grease be reissued ?  the answer is not an easy one .  grease is a fun movie , an entertaining fantasy of the '50s , embodying all the cliches of that era .  the music is lively and the dance numbers , choreographed by patricia birch , are energetic and high-spirited .  travolta was at his pinnacle as a sexual icon , cool , but non-threatening .  but grease didn't break any new cinematic ground .  it was not a milestone in movie history such as citizen kane or easy rider .  what grease is - or has become - is the highest-grossing musical in film history .  ok , let's not be a spoilsport .  grease is a fun and entertaining movie , even though it stretches credulity to see such performers as travolta , olivia newton-john , taxi's jeff conaway and the multi-talented stockard channing try to act like high schoolers .  it's nostalgic to recall how good a dancer travolta was , and it's sad to think of what could have been had not a few missteps sidetracked his career .  he could have become a musical comedy star in the tradition of gene kelly .  cinematically , the musical comedy has basically gone the way of the dinosaur .  between grease and 1996's evita . , you can probably count the number of movie musicals on one hand .  two reasons have contributed to the demise of the genre : the first is that movie audiences have become more sophisticated , no , make that cynical and jaded .  today , if a character began to dance and sing with no orchestra in sight , he or she would probably be hooted off the screen .  today's audiences lack the innocence , that belief in movie magic that is required for a musical to succeed .  secondly , a lack of talent .  performers with the charisma , the style , the larger-than-life panache of fred astaire , gene kelly , ginger rogers and judy garland are gone .  most singers and dancers remain on the stage , and those who do succeed in movies usually wind up in serious dramatic parts .  a good example is gregory hines , one of the greatest dancers in the world .  he danced a bit in the cotton club , tap and white nights , but those were essentially dramatic vehicles .  so , perhaps the reissue of grease can serve a purpose .  if audiences show enough interest , meaning if the re-release earns the studio enough revenue , it may spark a revival in movie musicals .  perhaps not original musicals such as singin' in the rain , an american in paris or seven brides for seven brothers , but for broadway properties that have been in the planning stages for film adaptations for several years .  at one time or another , according to the industry rumor mill , hollywood has been set to create an animated version of andrew lloyd webber's cats , a filming of the popular phantom of the opera as well as les miserables and chicago , the latter reportedly to star madonna .  so , let this grease be the forerunner of an armada of movie musicals .  let grease be the word that sparks this revival . 
neg@ that's exactly how long the movie felt to me .  there weren't even nine laughs in nine months .  it's a terrible mess of a movie starring a terrible mess of a man , mr . hugh grant , a huge dork .  it's not the whole oral-sex/prostitution thing ( referring to grant , not me ) that bugs me , it's the fact that grant is annoying .  not just adam sandler-annoying , we're talking jim carrey-annoying .  since when do eye flutters and nervous smiles pass for acting ?  but , on the other hand , since when do really bad slapstick ( a fistfight in the delivery room culminating in grant's head in joan cusack's lap--a scene he paid $60 to have included in the movie ) and obscene double entendres ( robin williams , the obstetrician , tells grant's pregnant girlfriend she has " a big pussy , " referring of course to the size of the cat hairs on her coat , but nonetheless , grant paid $60 to have the exchange included in the movie ) pass for comedy ?  nine months is a predictable cookie-cutter movie with no originality in humor or plot .  hugh grant plays a successful child psychiatrist .  why a child psychologist ?  so the scriptwriters could inject the following unfunny exchange :  kid : my dad's an asshole .  grant ( flutters eyelashes , offers a nervous smile , then responds in his annoying english accent and i-think-i-actually-have- talent attitude ) : could you possibly elaborate on that ?  kid : my dad's a _huge_ asshole .  more like a hugh asshole , but that's beside the point , which is : nine months includes too many needlessly stupid jokes that get laughs from the ten year olds in the audience while everyone else shakes his or her head in disbelief .  so , anyway , grant finds out his girlfriend is pregnant and does his usual reaction ( fluttered eyelashes , nervous smiles ) .  this paves the way for every possible pregnancy/child birth gag in the book , especially since grant's equally annoying friend's wife is also pregnant .  the annoying friend is played by tom arnold , who provides most of the cacophonous slapstick , none of which is funny , such as a scene where arnold beats up a costumed " arnie the dinosaur " ( you draw your own parallels on that one ) in a toy store .  the only interesting character in the movie is played by jeff goldblum , who should have hid himself away somewhere after the dreadful hideaway , as an artist with a fear of ( and simultaneous longing for ) commitment .  not even robin williams , who plays a russian doctor who has recently decided to switch from veterinary medicine to obstetrics , has much humor .  his is a one-joke character-- the old foreign-guy-who-mispronounces-english stereotype ( did someone say yakov smirnov ?  that's my favorite vodka , by the way ) , hence the line " now it's time to take a look at your volvo , " another nasty but unamusing joke , except this one goes right over the ten year olds' heads , while the adults simultaneously groan .  nine months is a complete failure , low on laughs and intelligence and high on loud , unfunny slapstick , failed jokes and other uninspired lunacy .  hugh grant's sunset boulevard arrest ( please , no caught-with-his-pants-down jokes ) may bring more people into the theaters , but they certainly won't leave with a smile on their faces , not after 90 minutes of grant's nervous smiles .  everything in the movie is so forced , so unauthentic that anyone with an i . q .  over 80 ( sorry , hugh ) will know they wasted their money on an unfulfilled desire .  but at least they didn't spend 60 bucks for it . 
pos@ martin scorsese's films used to intimidate me .  because of his reputation , i felt obligated to appreciate them as deep film art rather than as great flicks .  as much as i enjoyed them , i usually felt like i missed something .  i learned from scorsese's casino that whatever techniques he uses are merely there to enhance the story .  no mystical interpretation is required to appreciate his movies .  for example , in casino he uses subtitles when robert deniro and joe pesci are using code words with each other .  there was no meaning more exotic than that subtitles were the most succinct way for him to tell the audience what was really going on .  or toward the end , when he uses three quick dissolves to compress a scene of a car backing away from a building .  again , the simple , mundane explanation is that it helped the pacing .  i don't mean to say that his techniques are not creative or good-looking .  but he simply uses the best tool for the job .  it shouldn't have surprised me , then , that kundun , a film about a mystical religion , actually turned out to be quite straightforward .  the movie follows the life of the 14th dalai lama , the spiritual and political leader of tibet .  the movie's title is another name for the dalai lama which means " ocean of wisdom . "  his story is told in strict chronological order and there are only a few cinematic visions to embellish the literal story .   ( one of which makes an interesting statement : pay attention to the film's opening shot and watch where it is repeated . )  we first glimpse the dalai lama when he is two years old .  his curiosity and self-assuredness capture the attention of a monk wandering in search of the new lama .  a test is arranged to see if this boy really is the reincarnation of the 13 dalai lamas who have gone before .  several items belonging to the previous dalai lama are laid before the boy alongside some other items .  the child is asked if he recognizes any of the items as his own .  the boy picks correctly , proving that he is the new , and the old , dalai lama .  scorsese and long-time editor thelma schoonmaker were kind enough to allow the possibility that the child was taking his cues from the monk .  before selecting an item , he would look at the monk , perhaps for some sort of confirmation .  sometimes he picked right the first time , and sometimes he made a second choice .  either way , whether through reincarnation or quick human perception , the tibetans were assured of choosing a boy who could be a wise , perceptive leader .  >from this point on , the boy is raised as the reincarnation of the lama's spirit and the future leader of a nation .  it is a great weight to put on the mind of a child .  in the u . s . it might be grounds for a call to social services .  but the young lama accepts his destiny without any apparent emotional damage .  neither the great power nor the awesome responsibility keeps him from becoming a genuinely likeable , well-rounded person .  certain patterns take shape over the years .  for example , the dalai lama is fascinated by technology .  radios , clocks , and telescopes are some of his favorite toys .  when he is old enough to accept his leadership , he makes plans to modernize isolated tibet .  he also has a soft spot for creatures who are suffering or in pain , including herd animals .  it's nearly a running gag that he will buy sheep to keep them from being herded to slaughter .  but the most ominous constant throughout his life is the presence and threat of tibet's gigantic neighbor , china .  tibet and its leaders prove correct in fearing china , as , first the propaganda , then the political pressure , and finally the armies , come across their common border .  the chinese invasion is so successful that the lama's life is in danger if he stays .  the movie ends when , after much agonizing , the dalai lama leaves tibet for india .  the story doesn't lead up to a cinematic climax as strongly as most feature films do .  it just doesn't fit that mold .  if it were forced into such a shape it would have been a completely different movie ( perhaps more like seven years in tibet , which is good in its own right ) .  the pacing of kundun is more calm and level than that .  the structure of the film is made to fit the characters and events , not vice-versa .  perhaps because the pace is slower , we have more time to notice the beautiful art , vestments , and architecture of tibet .  a mandala , ( tibetan sand painting ) with beautiful , vibrant colors is shown throughout the movie .  the robes and hats of state are bright red and gold .  the bricks are a rich reddish brown , not unlike the skin tone of the tibetans .  even the touchstone pictures logo before the movie ( which is usually light blue ) is the red and gold of tibet .  philip glass composed the music for kundun , and he was the perfect choice .  for those who don't know of glass , his music is like a tibetan mandala .  his building blocks are lots of small notes , tiny grains of music , which are first grouped , then repeated in patterns .  these patterns create interesting textures which are themselves part of a larger composition .  people won't be flocking to kundun for it's great ending , or talking about its outstanding plot , but it does have a lot to offer : an interesting lifetime , exotic sights , rich cinematography , and innovative music .  it gives interesting insight into tibetan buddhism and takes a warm look at the dalai lama as a person .  on top of it all is the cinematic mastery of martin scorsese , who gives the film a strong , beautiful , consistent look . 
neg@ adam sandler turns up the charm in his latest romantic comedy , the wedding singer .  unfortunately , that also has the effect of softening his edge .  he's nowhere near his peak of happy gilmore , not that it was much of one .  he's certainly not helped here by a rather frail plot .  the year is 1985 , letting the whole film obsess with 80s nostalgia .  adam sandler is nice guy robbie , the titular wedding singer , who entertains at the local reception hall by belting out his interpretations of classic 80s hits .  robbie's life is thrown into turmoil when his fiancee , linda ( angela featherstone ) , leaves him at the altar .  however , things are looking up when he meets julia ( drew barrymore ) , a waitress at the hall .  she's the perfect woman , but for one small flaw : she's engaged to be married to a slick junk bond king , glenn ( matthew glave ) .  so , most of the film deals with the slow realization by robbie that he and julia are in love , and his attempts to stop the wedding .  as far as plots go , it's a pretty thin and tired one .  to fill the gaps , the wedding singer delivers heaping spoonfuls of 1980s nostalgia .  from boy george to michael jackson , from miami vice to dallas , from the first cds to the last rubik's cubes , this film revels in all the minutiae .  and then there's the music . . .  learning a lesson from the successful soundtracks to grosse pointe blank , and romy and michele's high school reunion , this film packs more 80s songs in the film than the running time will allow .  as a result , most songs get maybe a lyric or a half , but you can almost see the bright gleam in the record executives' eyes : the wedding singer vols .  2 , 3 , and 4 !  while the nonstop 80s riffs get incredibly tiring , at least they distract you from the plot .  at least last year's my best friend's wedding stirred up the standard " keep your true love from marrying someone else " plot by making the rival a nice person .  here , glenn is such a lowly rat of a man that you never see what julia saw in him .  barrymore , on the other hand , is simply charming as julia .  which leaves us with adam sandler .  he's at his best in the film when his nice guy persona fades a little ( such as when he has a breakdown on stage during a wedding reception ) .  when he's in full nice-guy mode , he's more pathetic than endearing .  the film boasts several cameos ( most notably by steve buscemi and jon lovitz ) .  but none of them work well at all .  buscemi's role as a drunken best man simply fails to be humorous .  lovitz , on the other hand , as a rival wedding singer , makes you long for his good old days on saturday night live , where he was actually funny .  the only cameo which has some appeal is a guest appearance by a classic 80s rocker during the film's finale ( surprisingly , one of the only plot-related scenes which actually works . )  adam sandler still has some work to do before he can become a dependable leading man .  while he attempts to change his image in the wedding singer , the end result is no net gain . 
pos@ if this keeps up , jane austen ( sense and sensibility , pride and prejudice ) may have to apply for posthumous membership to the screen writers guild .  yet another novel of hers has made the transition to the silver screen .  mansfield park is a turn of the century ( 18th century going on 19th ) story about love among the classes as well as an examination into proper society and family ties .  ten year old fanny price ( hannah taylor-gordon , jakob the liar ) , taken from her mother and father and the poverty in which they dwell , is sent to live with her aunt and the privileged class at mansfield park , under the stern patriarchal hand of her uncle , sir thomas bertram ( harold pinter , mojo )  spending her days reminded of her lower status , she also invents and writes fanciful stories during her private times .  fanny eventually grows to become a beautiful , intelligent , and engaging heroine ( quite unlike the original character which ms . austen originally penned in her novel . )  writer/director patricia rozema ( when night is falling ) is responsible for the textual changes .  from a purely dramatic perspective , the revision makes perfect sense and improves the film's audience appeal .  what ms . rozema has done is to infuse the main character with much of ms . austen's own personality by including excerpts from the author's journals , giving that dialogue to fanny .  the result is a central character that is immediately appealing .  as the grown fanny , australian actress frances o'connor ( all about adam ) does wonderfully textured work .  at times , ms . rozema has fanny address the camera directly to communicate many of the novel's more introspective observations .  this is a difficult device to work seamlessly into a period film and it is to ms . o'connor's credit that it works as well as it does .  the central theme which gives the story its legs in an old one . . .  whether it is better to marry for love or for social standing ?  fanny has fallen in love with her cousin edmund ( jonny lee miller , plunkett & macleane ) who appears fond of her as well .  his attentions are soon divided as the stylish and socially acceptable mary crawford ( embeth davidtz , bicentennial man ) enters the picture along with her equally acceptable brother henry ( alessandro nivola , inventing the abbotts ) who eventually sets his romantic sights upon fanny .  while mary and henry are evidently less than sincere in their affections , their presence does provide the movie and the main characters with the necessary conflict that keeps our interest until the film's appropriately austen-like ending .  other thematic devices include a awkwardly inserted reference to the source of the wealth of mansfield park . . .  the slave trade .  there is also a hint of both lesbianism and incest but neither is carried very far and is soon forgotten .  the motivation for marriage remains the primary thematic thrust .  fanny's cousin , maria bertram ( victoria hamilton , persuasion ) is an example of one making a poor match , marrying a well-to-do fool who is able to make her comfortable , but never happy .  fanny's own mother , trapped in her chosen life of squalor warns fanny by admitting that her situation is due to the fact that she " married for love . "  fanny , given those two terrible examples , and faced with the same choice is understandably indecisive as to which way to lean .  the spiritual answer , of course , lies in the middle of those two extremes .  marriage is not a cold , calculating decision based upon self-preservation .  neither is it a senseless decision made in the warm afterglow of a passionate embrace .  in the purest sense , marriage forms an insoluble union whereby two people agree to function as one .   " and said , for this cause shall a man leave father and mother , and shall cleave to his wife : and they twain shall be one flesh ? "  matthew 19 : 5 [kjv]  love and logic can be combined .  god's word contains both .  so does a marriage based upon his truth . 
neg@ the most depressing thing about the depressingly pedestrian james bond film " the world is not enough " is its final frame : white letters on a black background proclaiming " james bond will return . "  oh i certainly hope not .  with pierce brosnan in his third and reportedly last go-round as james bond 007 , " the world is not enough " is the best example to date that " 'enough " is enough .  in this , the 19th chapter in the seemingly-endless franchise featuring ian fleming's debonair british secret agent who likes his martinis--and his nemeses--shaken not stirred , the sub-inspired screenwriters have chosen to rehash all of the setups , stunts , and sexy encounters of the previous 18 bond flicks rather than coming up with anything the slightest bit original .  we've got previously-used speedboat chases , ski chases , and sticky situations aboard nuclear submarines .  we've got a couple of hot-to-trot babes without an ounce of acting ability between them .  we've got a post-cold war megalomaniac bent on world domination slash destruction ( here played by a skinheaded robert carlyle with mean , lean panache ) .  and , as has been the case since 1977's " the spy who loved me , " we've got a plot that has nothing whatsoever to do with anything conceived by mr . fleming .  we've also got a main title song by garbage to which , with very little effort , you can fit the lyrics to * both * songs from " tomorrow never dies . "  while originality was never the series' strong suit , the films were almost always fun , with at least some thought going into the nonstop stunts .  i can't think of one memorable set-piece in the entire--and very dull-- " the world is not enough . "  in addition , michael apted ( yes , the respected director of such films as " coal miner's daughter , " " nell , " and the " 28up " documentary series ) takes embarrassing advantage of the full range of bond clich ? s .  you get the " talking killer " plot device--you know the scenario : the bad guy has the good guy at his mercy yet waxes poetic just long enough to die of old age .  and you get a slew of high-priced assassins who can't hit a barn door at 20 paces : in the film's opening minutes ( of an endless 128 ) , bond chases a sultry sniper along the thames and the leather-clad lovely fails to hit bond's souped-up " fishing boat " with a bazooka when he pulls within a few feet of her .  later , she takes off in a hot air balloon with bond dangling from a guy rope beneath her but is still unable to take him out .  these reliable absurdities are more frustrating than usual since there are no distractions other than occasional ads for luxury automobiles , vodka , or credit cards .  in and among the rampant product placements , brosnan grapples with carlyle , " braveheart " 's sophie marceau ( as former kidnap victim slash heiress elektra king ; she's terrible ) , " wild things " ' denise richards ( as a nuclear physicist lord help me ; she's laughable ) , and judi dench as m . dame judi brings the only shred of dignity to a series that has long since jettisoned its self-respect ( about the time roger moore inherited bond's walther ppk ) .  brosnan goes through the motions with the grace and charm you'd expect of the former " remington steele " star , but even he has to be thinking there's more to life than an easy paycheck .  he's given plenty of wiseacre asides to deliver , but only one of them-- " i don't know any doctor jokes " --made me chuckle ( although " i thought christmas only comes once a year " is more in keeping with the series' penchant for grown-worthy puns ) . 
pos@ in december of 1996 , a little movie called " scream , " was released , became a box-office smash , and resurrected films targeted at teens .  first , it was teen slasher movies that were the big fad ( both " scream " movies , " i know what you did last summer , " " urban legend , " etc . ) , but just recently , the popularity has switched over to the teen comedy genre ( a 'la '80s john hughes ) , starting with last june's " can't hardly wait . "  it may be the first week of april in 1999 , but so far this year we have been given a movie aimed at the 25-and-under market almost every single week : " varsity blues , " " jawbreaker , " " cruel intentions , " " simply irresistible , " " the rage : carrie 2 , " and " the mod squad . "  coming april 9 are two more of this type : " never been kissed " and " go , " and on april 23 , we've got the teen satire " election " and the teen horror-comedy " idle hands . "  jeesh !  out of all of these moves , however , the one that is most similar to the latest incarnation , " 10 things i hate about you , " is this past january's mediocre , ho-hum " she's all that . "  although similar in plotting ( ok , darn near identical ) , " 10 things i hate about you , " a modern-day version of shakespeare's " the taming of the shrew " ( " she's all that " got its inspiration from " pygmalion " ) , is an infinitely superior film in every department , from the smart direction by first-time feature director gil junger to the charming and well-written screenplay by karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith to the striking ensemble cast , who give the best group of performances in a teen comedy since 1985's " the breakfast club . "  and to top it all off , in the inevitable climax set at the prom , at least we didn't have to once again suffer through a goofy , inappropriate dance sequence ( who could forget , or want to remember , for that matter , this ludicrous development in " she's all that ? " ) .  the day wide-eyed , shy new student cameron james ( joseph gordon-levitt ) starts school at seattle-based padua high , he is swept away at the sight of the beautiful and popular sophomore , bianca stratford ( larisa oleynik ) .  although he doesn't know french , he purposefully learns some of it just so he can tutor her , but finds that her paranoid gynecologist father ( larry miller ) won't allow her to date until her bitter , unconventional older sister , kat ( julia stiles ) , a senior , decides to .  kat , of course , has sworn off the likes of boys , but cameron sets out to find someone that will be the perfect match for her , which is exactly what he finds in the form of the rebellious patrick verona ( heath ledger ) .  complicating matters , cameron's dorky friend , michael ( david krumholtz ) , decides to use a wealthy jock , joey ( andrew keegan ) , who also has his sights set on bianca , as a pawn so that he will pay patrick to get kat to go out with him , and then cameron hopes to steal bianca away from joey .  as you can see , " 10 things i hate about you " includes a huge number of characters , some of which i haven't even mentioned , such as kat's shakespeare-obsessed friend , mandella ( susan may pratt ) and bianca's materialistic comrade , chastity ( gabrielle union ) .  at a short , but well-used running time of 98 minutes , all of the characters are perfectly handled , satisfyingly developed , and , for the most part , are not treated as caricatures ( another flaw of " she's all that , " where the bad guys ( and gals ) ran around constantly saying , " you're vapor " ) .  since i could sympathize with the realistic depictions of the central characters , and since many of the comedic and dramatic scenes were surprisingly effective , i got completely caught up in all of the relationships and was thoroughly entertained .  aside from a good screenplay , it's the performances that can make or break a movie , and director junger has really hit the jackpot .  aside from joseph gordon-levitt ( " 3rd rock from the sun " ) , who gives his strongest performance to date here , none of the actors are that well-known , but it is this aspect that brings a particular freshness to the proceedings .  as the main character of kat , julia stiles ( last seen in the miniseries " the '60s " ) is marvelous and always believable , and certainly has a bright future ahead of her .  even though it is her role that is initially the most difficult and hard-edged , it was easy to identify with kat's way of thinking ( she is against the silly tradition of the prom and loves reading sylvia plath ) , and i completely admired her individuality .  no one , i think , could have portrayed her as perfectly as stiles does .  heath ledger , as the infamous bad-boy of the town , injects much life into patrick , and has a lot of chemistry with stiles .  one other actor of note is larisa oleynik who , with the help of screenwriters lutz and smith , is able to turn bianca into a person with multi-dimensions , even though she is accurately self-centered at the on-set .  in one truthful scene , cameron angrily asks her if she has always been so selfish , and bianca grudgingly realizes that yes , she has .  one off-beat element of the film , and a source of some hearty laughs , is the way that the school's staff act , which is strikingly unformal .  allison janney , as the guidance counselor ms . perky , who is writing a trashy harlequin romance novel , is comic dynamite , as is daryl " chill " mitchell as the english teacher , who reads shakespeare to the class in rap and , at one point , sends kat to the office because , for once , she actually thinks one of his assignments is really good .  although there are a few cheap laughs that are thrown into the film near the beginning , most of it actually works , especially in the humorous and witty dialogue exchanges and quirks between the characters .  in one very funny scene , chastity asks , " i know people can be overwhelmed , and they can be underwhelmed , but can people just be . . . whelmed ? "  at another point , bianca and kat's father ( a stand-out larry miller ) , who is constantly terrified that his daughters are going to get pregnant , only allows bianca to go to the prom on one occasion : before she leaves , she has to put on the heavy fat suit he has so she will get an idea of what it's like to be pregnant .   " 10 things i hate about you " once and for all proves that there is still life in the teen comedy genre , and this movie is probably more reminiscent of the great john hughes than any other film of the '90s .  it also helps that the movie has a perfectly-assembled soundtrack , mixing indie-rock with new wave '80s songs ( and with , thank goodness , no rap ) .  by the film's end , it actually had me rooting for certain characters to get together , and i was also quite pleased with how everything was wrapped up , especially in the final scenes involving kat and bianca , kat and her father , and a flawlessly-acted and moving sequence in which kat gets up to read the poem she has written for her english class ( this is where the title comes from ) .  luckily , i doubt i would be able to find ten things i hate about " 10 things i hate about you , " but the positive aspects of the film far out-number ten . 
neg@ i was recently told that in china their had been strong protests against the release of red corner  and this is apparently because of the way it shows the injustice of many chinese laws .  but if you ask me , the real truth of the matter is that the chinese critics association were determined not to punish the population into viewing richard gere running across rooftops in search for a fellow american .  or more the point , anyone that allows him to bask in his own less-than-subtle presence .  this is not an insult to gere , as i consider him to be a rather talented actor  but more the choice of character and responsibility of his role .  if a film is solely about one person , the main actor must give a faultless performance in order for it to really work .  although geres performance is in no way poorly acted , it is far from perfect  and i look forward to seeing him star with other talented actors that can reduce the need for him to carry a film by himself .  this is where he truly belongs , and if you are reluctant to believe me than look no further that primal fear ( with the sensational edward norton ) , the jackal ( with bruce willis ) and pretty woman ( with the delightful julia roberts ) .  in red corner gere plays classy lawyer jack moore , who is guilty of the same personality traits as his character martin vail in primal fear  bold and up front , who thinks he is three steps ahead of everybody else but is actually two steps behind .  it is with invulnerability of both mental and physical kind that the character of moore is portrayed , which left me barracking for the chinese to haul his sorry ass into jail .  it doesnt take long from the films beginning for jack moores charm to work on a pretty chinese lady , and in no time they are in bed together in a hotel room  drunk and cheerful .  yet instead of a hangover , poor jack finds himself covered in blood and the chinese chick dead on a couch .  he is arrested and hauled into a chinese prison .  his cell , food and rights  all terrible .  now trapped in a foreign land without adequate aid from the american embassy , lawyer shen yuelin ( bai ling ) defends his case by initially pleading guilty to the charge of murder .  jack and shen argue about their countries different laws ; shen stating that they will shoot you in the back and charge the cost of the bullet to your family .   as the plot thickens , scenes get progressively more ridiculous  ranging from richard gere running over rooftops in search of the us embassy to a scooby doo ending where the least expected but-you-knew-along criminal is discovered .  red corner is one of those films where you sneer , laugh or vomit youre way through all of its minutes .  what should have been a politically taunt thriller is little more than a pointless expedition to see how stressed out richard gere can act .  this is not to say that the film does not have its moments  there are some tense court room scenes that are shrewdly created  telling the tale of foreign injustice and government corruption .  but what they amount to spoils the effect of having them in the first place  perhaps this is why red corner is so frustrating to watch .  if you look at the films overall concept fairly broadly , the basic idea is quite tangible .  it is upon the films execution where the diminutive plot twists and developments fail to impress or innovate - the evidence that goes missing , the high powered officials shielding the truth and intolerable love angles have all been done so many times before .  if that wasnt bad enough , red corners dialogue is purely laughable on many occasions .  shen yuelin attempts to gain sympathy by reciting renaissance of a destitute relationship with her deceased father , whilst jack moore is eager to talk about chinese musical instruments when he could have been working on a plan to free himself .  taking itself far too seriously , red corner is not half the film it intends to be .  although it would have benefited from the help of a more valuable supporting cast , the films main fault is in the bizarre ( and often out of place ) way of unfolding a story which isnt that meritorious anyway .  whilst richard gere still proves that has what it takes to be known as a decent actor , i would think twice before going to see him attempt to manage such a serious yet hollow drama again .  martin vailwhere are you ? 
pos@ imagine this scenario : you and any of your family members are scudding through one of those long , excruciating cross-country car trips , far from the city and into the deserted rural routes .  so far , the trip is idyllic when , abruptly , your car malfunctions and you are stranded in the middle of nowhere .  it is not an easy situation , but a perfectly plausible one , the panorama in which breakdown musters it's throbbing suspense and skillfully executed tautness .  it is not easy to cobble a distinct and gripping thriller nowadays , but breakdown doesn't bungle into rudimentary plot holes or cliches and it derives a masterful , titillating climax that by it's finale , engrosses a viewer with total absorption .  the plot is somewhat reminiscent of 1988's the vanishing .  kurt russell and kathleen quinlan respectively play jeff and amy taylor , a massachusetts couple en route to california for a brand new job .  when they stop for gas somewhere in the arid southwest , jeff is confronted by a pugnacious driver , who later , will be an important player in the plot department .  minutes later after that , their brand new , strikingly red , jeep grand cherokee unexpectedly stops .  jeff cannot detect the car's problem , so he allows amy to take a ride with red ( j .  t walsh ) , a heedful truck driver who will convey her to the nearest town , where jeff will meet her at a local diner .  it is facile for the film to turn into a pseudo-suspenser , but instead it opts for maximum fervor .  jeff manages to re-start the car himself , but when he arrives at the diner , she is nowhere in sight .  disconcerted , the coffee shop's bartender informs jeff where to search for his wife , a town about twenty miles from here .  there , trouble arises .  and i shall not reveal anything else , since that would be spoiling the fun of what's head .  there are many involving , tight scenes in breakdown but the final climactic period which includes a magnificent chase with three cars and a huge truck , will have you feeling as if your legs are made out of pure foam .  it is a pleasure to be part of a classic confrontation of good vs evil , and rooting for the good guys , in this case jeff .  kurt russell is one of the few top-notch hollywood actors which doesn't overblow his acting , and gradually gains reliance on his role as it progresses .  so you can assume his alteration in breakdown is letter-perfect .  suffice it is to say he undergoes a transformation , from a jolly man , to a guy frantically pursuing a loved one .  not many well-paid actors can deliver these type of performances , but russell is one of them .  as an everyday man , he pulls it off extremely convincingly , what also surprised me more was his rigorous physicality , which he effectively practices almost all throughout the films 93 minutes .  although the film is blotted with a couple of portentous action sequences ( very well done ) yet the tightness is generated by the subtle circumstances this man is presented with .  faced with an enigma about his wife's whereabouts , the movie succeeds by conveying us in realistic territory with veritable characters , including the cryptic villains , who in essence , make the movie what it is .  what's most impressive however , is the feature debut by writer/director jonathan mostow .  mostow , hitherto directed the showtime thriller flight of a black angle , alleviates the contrivances and generics of the script by gingerly pursuing the trajectory of the plot , efficiently letting the tone and the mood of the story generate that nail-biting suspense sought for in a well- made affair .  contrary to most american thrillers , he doesn't rely on visual flair , but on aesthetics and substance .  after breakdown , he should gain vast notoriety .  the villains in the movie aren't your routine out-of-this-world idiosyncratic psychos that are harming for no particular objective .  the baddies in breakdown , all well acted , are normal , seemingly inoffensive townspeople who beneath their trustworthy layer , conduct an amoral business of corruption and murder .  the movie smartly portrays these men as loathsome rednecks , and , of all things in the world , it is becoming rather easy to root for villains ( jon voight in anaconda ) in today's movies .  worth a special mentioning is j . t walsh ( who previously worked with kurt russell in executive decision ) as the leader of the gang , he renders a deliciously wicked performance , temporarily stepping out of the minor roles he is known for .  alfred hitchcock used suspense--and action-- not only to stimulate , but as a way of aiding his audience's fascination in his stories , which were slowly realizing man's biggest fears .  breakdown yields exactly that .  it magnificently taps into the psyche of an ordinary man , acting like an ordinary man , looking like an ordinary and some sort of superhero .  despite one or two iffy moments even hitchcock , i think , would approve of breakdown .   ( 1 : 33 ) 
neg@ tim robbins and martin lawernce team up in this road movie comedy .  robbins plays an exec who discovers his wife having sex with his boss .  he goes into depression , and drives around his neighbourhood until he arrives inside the usual 'ghetto' side of every american city .  there , lawernce attempts to steal his car , but to no avail , and is dragged along with robbin's on a trip to arizona .  there , they hold up a store , are mistaken for two other robbers ( just like in my cousin vinny ) and are chased by the police , and the other robbers .  of course , there's gags along the way , usually from lawernce .  although the film is midly funny , and quite watchable , there's something so horribly familiar about it all .  this film should really be called beverly hills midnight run there's lawernce with his wisecracking and heavy profanity , just like eddie murphy in beverly hills cop , and pratically the same idea as midnight run .  it's full of all the road movie cliches , and even has a 'comedy' car chase , which just seemed so eighties .  even the credit sequence seemed to be out of a steve martin , or chevy chase , eighties comedy .  there also isn't much chemistry between robbins and lawernce .  in planes , trains and automobiles , there was real chemistry between steve martin and john candy .  in nothing to lose , there is hardly chemistry at all .  towards the end the chemistry seems to work , but for the bulk of the film , there is hardly any ,  the director directs the film in a workman like fashion , but gets the jokes across .  and although there is no chemistry between the two leads , they give good performances on their own .  lawerence gives a good eddie murphy performance , and robbin's is alright aswell .  however , robbin's performance is nowhere near as good as the characters he played in jacob's ladder , and the player .  in fact , if you want to see robbin's do comedy much better than in nothing to lose , i suggest you rent out the hudsucker proxy , where he is much funnier .  nothing to lose does have some funny moments in it , however .  the humour isn't particulary sophisticated , but if you enojyed dumb & dumber , you might enjoy this .  the characters in arizona are funny , and there's also a good scene where robbin's asks a shopkeeper which 'threatening approach' was better , lawerences ( which consisted of lawerence threatening to shoot the shopkeeper's ass , and swearing a lot ) , or himselfs , ( which was speaking in a deep , scary voice ) but the gags are predictable , the lack of chemistry infurating , and the ending too far-fetched and 'perfect'  nothing to lose then , is robbin's first 'bad' movie ( and hopefully his last ) , and suggests that odereick should twice before making another film .  he nearly ruined carrey's career with ace ventura : when nature calls , let's hope he hasn't ruined robbin's ( or even lawerence's ) with nothing to lose . 
pos@  " it's not good to know too much about someone , charlie , " charles warns his niece , charlie ( margaret welsh ) , with a devilish grin .  charlie is infatuated with her namesake uncle , her " soul mate " as she calls him since her mother gave her his name .  there's a lot to know about charles , not the least of which is that he strangled 3 widows back east .  mark harmon , who looks like anything but a killer but specializes in playing them , plays charles , the merry widow murderer in the 1991 hallmark hall of fame remake of the 1943 hitchcock film , shadow of a doubt .  and to avoid any questions about his guilt , we see charles in action in the opening scene with his last victim .  the story takes place in the early 1950s in the small town of petaluma , california , where charles heads to avoid the police .  john gay's script uses most of the original screenplay by sally benson , alma reville , and thornton wilder .  karen arthur's direction is certainly no match for the great master , but on an absolute scale , the movie maintains a high level of suspense .  when supercilious and deceitful charles comes to pay a visit of indeterminate length with his sister and her family in petaluma , they don't know about his nefarious activities .  he showers them with elaborate gifts to buy the love they had already given him anyway .  two mysterious and exceedingly clean-cut writers for a magazine show up to take pictures of the family for a spread on the " average american family , " but their interest is focused on uncle charles , especially on taking his picture and learning about his background .  charlie , who first welcomed her uncle's visit , begins to feel more and more uncomfortable with him and suspicious of the disingenuous magazine reporters .  the picture advances with a delicate power using small details such as the newspaper article that the uncle tries secretly to remove and that charlie discovers .  the beauty of the story is the pas de deux between uncle and niece as they try to out psych each other .  she wants him to leave , and he doesn't want to go , what with a local , rich widow as a prospective victim .  will charles kill charlie first , or will she get him out of town .  harmon is wonderfully creepy and smug , and welsh is tough but trapped .  with a deft touch the director sets up each scene , several with thunderstorms , and tom neuwirth's sepia-toned cinematography makes the movie feel as if it were filmed in the 50s .  my only quibble is the director's awkward staging of the final scene on the train .  is hitchcock's version better ?  of course .  is this one worth watching as well ?  actually , yes .  shadow of a doubt runs 1 : 40 .  it is not rated but would be pg for adult themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up . 
neg@ if only austin powers : the spy who shagged me had been just half as original , zany , silly and totally enjoyable as its predecessor , it would have easily been one of this summer's biggest pleasures .  if only .  in fact , the spy who shagged me is the exact opposite of the original ; instead of refreshing the audience with one clever parody after another , the filmmakers bombard us with used-up , tired jokes taken directly from the first one .  take the scene where austin powers ( again played by mike myers , but with only a fraction of the giddy enthusiasm he displayed previously ) confronts a henchmen on the side of a cliff .  after being pushed off the ravine , the bad guy is of course assumed dead .  but suddenly , we hear a pleading voice coming from down below ; he's only injured .  a similar scene played very well in the original international man of mystery , but here i was insulted by it .  did the filmmakers really believe the audience would laugh at a rip-off ?  apparently i overestimated the intelligence of the average movie-goer , considering that the film has pulled in over $200 million in domestic theatrical grosses alone .  do i hear the sound of a franchise heading our way ?  having said that , though , i still cannot deny the film its merits .  the basic plot was delightfully silly enough to sustain my interest somewhat ; dr . evil ( mike myers , in the second of his three roles ) , having constructed a time machine , goes back to the year 1969 in an attempt to snatch austin power's " mojo " ( don't you just love that word ? )  whilst he is cryogenically frozen .  when austin gets wind of this ( after a great intro explaining the absence of elizabeth hurley's vanessa kensington ) , he too travels back in time to re-claim his sexual drive , accompanied by the hot-to-trot felicity shagwell , played by heather graham .  this sounds stupid , i know , but in the movie it starts to make some kind of weird , off-the-wall sense , and it worked for me .  then there's mini-me ( verne troyer ) , a . . .  petite clone of myer's dr . evil , exactly 1/8 in size .  troyer's persona alone gains the film an extra half-star , contributing to one particularly hilarious scene where he attempts to nibble on his own mini-mr .  bigglesworth .  just try to ignore the fact that , at 2'8'' , he would make dr . evil's height rise to just over 21 feet .  no matter .  however , there are only about four hearty laughs throughout the entire hour and a half ( the most notable being the now infamous tent scene ) , and that just isn't enough to warrant even a minor recommendation .  if there is in fact an " austin powers 3 " , they should just kill off secret agent powers and put the emphasis on dr . evil and mini-me .  unconventional , yes , but there's no denying that it'd make for a better movie . 
pos@ errol morris , critically acclaimed director of the 1997 documentary fast , cheap and out of control , vaults to new heights with mr .  death .  this film , an examination of the life and work of controversial execution equipment designer and revisionist historian fred a . leuchter , jr . , is sure to draw audiences out of their malaise , stunning even the more jaded minds among us .  don't let the film's cheesy dissuade you .  following this sideshow of horror-lab special effects we are plunged quickly into a non-stop exploration of the weirdness that is leuchter's life and mind .  morris follows the trail of leuchter's madness with appalling lucidity , revealing in a surprising and frightening way what most of us could have guessed to begin with : this leuchter guy is seriously messed up .  virtually raised within the american penal system by a father who worked within prison walls , leuchter seems to have come somewhat naturally into his profession ; designing and maintaining execution equipment for state penitentiaries , in spite of his lack of credentials .  after a moderately successful career making electric chairs and designing gas chambers and gallows , leuchter came to the attention of neo-nazi and revisionist historian ernst zundel , who was facing criminal charges in germany for publishing his `theory' that the holocaust never happened .  morris's interviews are surprisingly congenial , drawing the subjects into a carefree banter that gives them more than enough rope with which to hang themselves .  zundel speaks to the camera as though it were his mensch .  leuchter seems completely at ease , sometimes jovial .  part of this effect may be due to morris's new interviewing machine , called the interrotron , which is responsible for creating eye contact between the subject and the interviewer .  this was the first time morris had used the device , and the results are startling .  combine the irony of these interviews with leuchter's reenactments and reels of creepy stock footage of his trip to auschwitz and birkenau , not to mention a haunting clip of thomas edison electrocuting an elephant , and you've got one compelling and disturbing documentary .  while this film isn't for the feeble-minded or weak-hearted , it is a valuable addition to the cultural landscape .  aside from a few dragging minutes toward the end of the piece , morris has given us a fresh look at a dismal subject and i , for one , feel bettered by the experience . 
neg@ capsule : one of the ten worst movies ever made .  christopher lambert vs . evil ninjas in modern-day japan . . .  and nobody wins .  the hunted is such a bad movie , so completely inept and so totally brain-damaged that i could almost feel affection for it .  i could see myself showing this movie to friends and getting a good jolly guffaw out of it , if it weren't also insanely xenophobic and insulting .  christopher lambert plays a computer-parts salesman who's on business in japan .  he meets a slinky young woman ( joan chen ) and has a torrid night of lovemaking with her -- and then manages to witness her death at the hands of an evil ninja clan and their leader ( john lone ) .  apparently they had some unfinished business that could only be concluded with her getting slaughtered .  since lambert is a witness , he's of course the next one to die .  let's stop and think about this for a second .  if lambert were in real life being chased by fanatical devotees to a ninja secret society , he'd have a lifespan you could only measure with an atomic clock .  in this movie , the ninja manage to kill just about everyone except him .  i imagine the japanese gods smiled down on lambert and provided him with a goof field that radiates out about ten feet from his body .  you know what a goof field is : that invisible zone in which anyone who has intent to do harm to you becomes a klutz no matter what their real dexterity is .  this is , of course , only the beginning of the movie's problems .  lambert eventually finds pseudo-safety with a long-haired modern-day samurai ( yoshio harada ) and his partner -- yoko shimada , who you may remember as lady toda buntaro in shogun .  they are the two best things in the movie ; in every scene they have authority and presence , and they actually look like they belong here , even when dressed in full samurai armor and wielding bows .  the script doesn't know what the hell to do with them .  lone , as the bad guy , is zero-dimensional .  the only bad-guy cliche he has to wallow around in is the one about how the bad guy always has exotic women dripping off of him .  in the hunted , this is elevated to the level of an insulting stereotype .  what's funny is that the peripheral characters in the hunted are not sterotypes -- there's a nice little scene with a tokyo cabdriver , and a girl in a pachinko parlor -- but many of the main characters are unsalveageably hateful .  also , the phenomenal instrumental troupe kodo has assembled a superior soundtrack -- get the cd -- that manages to survive despite the drek it's been designed to accompany .  there is an extended battle scene in the middle of the movie that is almost reason enough to watch the whole thing -- a gory , excellently staged fight on the bullet train that shows some real imagination for a moment , and then smothers it by trying to clumsily re-couple the whole thing with the movie's relentlessly stupid plot .  by the time we get to the final showdown , with lambert getting to wield his own sword ( which , judging from the ham-handed editing of one scene , was forged in seven hours or so ) , we no longer care .  we're not even given any definitive information about whether or not one of the key characters lives or dies !  someone once said that the key to good art -- good movies , good books , whatever -- is to start somewhere interesting , end up somewhere interesting , and show respect for the audience all along the way .  this movie bungles two out of three , badly . 
pos@ there's an old saying that states something about leaving the best for last .  george lucas certainly followed that adage when crafting the original star wars trilogy .  return of the jedi , the final installment of the series , is easily the most innovative , action-packed , and entertaining of the three films .  the dark , eerie atmosphere that oozed from every frame of the empire strikes back is gone .  instead , for return of the jedi , we have good triumphing decisively over evil , a resolution to a love triangle , and walking teddy bears .  even darth vader doesn't seem very intimidating this time around .  with the arrival of the emperor ( an apparition-like creature played by ian mcdiarmid ) , vader has turned into somewhat of a henchman .  return of the jedi picks up at an unspecified time after the conclusion of the empire strikes back .  luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) , princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , lando calrissian , ( billy dee williams ) , chewbacca ( peter mayhew ) , c3p0 ( anthony daniels ) and r2-d2 ( kenny baker ) are on a rescue mission to luke's home planet of tatooine .  their goal : to save han solo ( harrison ford ) from the clutches of the intergalactic gangster jabba the hutt .  it is at jabba's home , a creepy-looking stone fortress guarded by hog-nosed beasts , that most of the added special effects come into play .  from a hysterical scene involving a music group to the dreaded beast outside jabba's sand barge , the effects are top notch .  as soon as han is freed from his cryo-freeze and rescued from the clutches of the evil jabba the hutt , it's back to outer space , where the rebel alliance is about to face the empire's newest threat : a second , more powerful death star , that , if activated , could spell doom for anyone who stands against the emperor .  so , while the fleet prepares for the final battle , luke and company travel to the forest moon of endor to knock out the shield that defends the death star against all attacks .  there , they are befriended by the ewoks , the teddy bear-like native race , and luke , fearing that his presence is endangering the group , turns himself over to vader .  return of the jedi has some interesting elements .  the scenes which pitted luke against the emperor and vader are suitably tense and well-acted .  from a technical point-of-view , the space battles are amazing , easily hindering anything depicted in the previous films .  not only are there many , many more ships , but their speed and range of movement have been dramatically improved .  on one level , return of the jedi is almost worth watching for the special effects .  in the special edition , even more ships are added , making the final space battle incredibly fun to watch .  the acting in return of the jedi is stronger than in the previous films .  by now ( or then - 1983 ) , mark hamill , harrison ford , and carrie fisher have all matured in their on-screen personas .  the chemistry amongst the trio is terrific .  as in empire , billy dee williams gives us another human hero to root for .  newcomer ian mcdiarmid plays the emperor as a suitably creepy , cunning , and evil creature , although he's not as imposing as vader was in star wars .  although it was great fun watching star wars and the empire strikes back on the big screen , return of the jedi generates a greater sense of enjoyment .  with the spectacular , new special effects , the adorable ewoks , the sinister jabba the hutt , the evil emperor , the same old millenium falcon , darth vader's incredible betrayal , the destruction of the new death star , and the always lovable yoda , return of the jedi concludes one of the greatest trilogies ever made with a huge bang .  congratulations to george lucas , whose innovative mind entertains us now and will continue to entertain generations to come .   , 
neg@ capsule : lesbianism examined in the same hushed and reverential tones reserved for a terminal illness .  potentially interesting idea made stagy and boring .  claire of the moon is such an impossibly serious and sober movie that i was waiting for someone to sneeze , just to break the ice .  it's a perfect example of what my wife calls an s . f . e .  movie , where s . f . e .  means so f * * * ing earnest .  movies like this need wit and brashness to be absorbing .  claire is one strained speech after another , written delivered with all of the energy and spontenaity of a dmv clerk .  claire takes two women , claire and noel , both writers , and throws them together in the same cabin at a women-only writer's retreat .  claire wrights light comedy , while noel is a scholarly authority on porn and sexual behavior .  obviously , the two of them are going to have plenty to talk about , and for the entire one hundred and twelve insufferable minutes of this movie , that's all they do : talk .  the movie sets up its ( microscopic ) plot with beat-a-dead-horse-into-glue obviousness .  the evening talks at the camp are chaired by a motherly type named maggie , a self-professed lesbian , and when noel owns up to also being a lesbian , claire looks like she's been hit with a sockful of wet sand .  the movie then quickly degenerates into lots of scenes where noel glances at claire with significance , and claire looks out over the water reflectively .   ( ugh ! )  the most amazing thing about the movie is how people so intelligent can talk so much and yet get so little through their thick heads .  all of this , of course , leads up to a scene of complete inevitability : claire and noel , in a scene that should have come an hour earlier , because then the movie ends without even the benefit of reflection about what's just happened .  we never get a hint about how any of this has changed anyone , only how they felt about things that didn't even happen yet .  the problem with claire . . .  is not lesbianism as such , but the leaden way it's handled .  why is it that any " serious " ( a better word would be adult or at least thoughtful ) examination of sex in a movie almost always winds up producing a movie that's unwatchably boring ?  the way this movie deals with lesbianism , we might as well be watching an overheated docudrama about aids .  many other movies have used the same subject in ways that are a thousand times better -- more engaging , more creative , more intellectually and artistically interesting .  look at john sayles' lianna , or the interesting and little-seen desert bloom ; both of them have more life and vibrancy than claire .  what this movie needed was a good swift kick in the pants . 
pos@ expectation rating : a bit worse than expected ( mainly because i found the middle part to be a bit dull ) .  roger ebert gave it a four star review , and while he is a critic that uses the full scale , and i often agree -- such as dark city being the best film of 1998 , he must have seen a better film .  i read the book about five years ago and hugely enjoyed it .  the opening of a simple plan reminded me a bit of the sweet hereafter .  the landscape is snowy and cold , and is filmed what i feel is in a rather crisp manner ( which also reminds me of fargo ( which i loathed ) ) .  one can almost sense the cold .  but the movie far from the eye popping delights of the quick and the dead , instead raimi has made a more constrained film -- which probably is for the better .  this is probably not a movie that would have been improved by lots of odd shots .  the movie also reminded me of affliction , as the lead characters all seem to be hoping for and seeing a possibility to lead a better life than their father , and they see a chance for such a dream to come true .  this chance is uncovered in a snow covered field , where an airplane has crash landed .  in the plane three men find ? the american dream . . .  in a gym bag . ?  affliction too was set in a snowy landscape .  it really seems very simple .  just hold on to the money until spring , and if no one claims it , they'll be safe to spend it and their hope of experiencing the american dream can come true .  but the snow melts , and so might several of the character's hopes .  as in ? return to paradise ? , some of the characters are presented with a chance to do the right thing .  but doing the right thing might not result in a better result than something more selfish .  the movie's biggest strength is that it fact makes sense .  i have seen many movies based on books that just seem like selected scenes from the book visualized , eschewing anything remotely resembling a coherent story -- for example clear and present danger .  the biggest problem seems to over-familiarization with the story .  the writer perhaps feels that he doesn't have to present scenes that are clear to him , but the lack of which only baffles an audience which has not read the book .  this is definitely not the problem with a simple plan , even though the screenplay is by the book's author .  the movie is always clear on where it's going , and always makes sense .  i'm sue a lot was cut , but really i can't remember what .  even a minor scene involving a man complaining that he has paid for too much grains is included .  the man only comes in on mondays , but he claims that he has been charged for one purchase too many .  turns out . . .  well , see the movie .  one should be warned against seeing the trailer .  it reveals several scenes from the ending moments ( which yes , like in the book , it is a downer ) , several plot developments , and much of the beginning .  but much of this is not spelled directly out during the trailer , so if you're lucky , you'll have forgotten about all of this when you see the movie . 
neg@ there is a scene in patch adams in which patch is in the center of a courtroom , surrounded by people who are giving him a lively standing ovation because of his strong-worded attack on a group of stoic doctors .  when i noticed that the audience with whom i saw this film was reacting the same way , i realized that i was going to have a hard time finding someone who agrees with me about the quality of the picture .  you see , patch adams revolted me beyond all boundaries .  i hated this movie for every second that i sat watching it , and i actively hate it now , days later , with the simpering , superficial , nauseatingly sentimental images forever plaguing my memories .  i hate every element of the film , beginning with tom shadyac's shameless direction , and all the way up to the misguided and mishandled themes that the screenplay wants so desperately to convey .  the badness of patch adams is stupefying .  it's confounding .  i can't believe a film can be this bad .  and yet , it's based on a real man who probably has a good point to make .  in the film , patch is played by the undefeatable and indefatigable robin williams , in a performance of such insulting pathos and sledgehammer sympathy that i wonder now if he is even human .  in the beginning of the film , patch commits himself to a mental institution because he doesn't want to kill himself .  while there , he notices that the doctors don't care about the patients , and that the best way to get through to the patients is to treat them like human beings .  so , patch goes on a crusade to be a great doctor who actually talks to his patients .  he goes to medical school , where he meets truman ( daniel london ) and convinces him that it's good to help people .  he also meets carin fischer ( monica potters ) , the anti-male med student who just wants to go through the motions and be a successful doctor .  naturally , the dean of the medical school ( bob gunton ) hates patch , and wants to thwart his plans , even though patch gets the highest scores on all of his exams .  so patch decides that he's going to build a free clinic in the middle of nowhere to help people with any problem they may have .  and that , my friends , is the synopsis for what is easily the most abhorrent picture of 1998 .  on a superficial level , the film is not particularly bad : i wouldn't say the cinematography bothered me , and most of the performances seem to be exactly what shadyac was aiming for ( i actually liked potter's performance , even if she is wasted ) .  but the film fails fundamentally in execution .  every scene swells with grand , " emotional " music , played at maximum volume just to get us all to cry real hard .  take , for instance , the first scene , which shows patch sitting on a bus .  we don't know patch yet , but there's sad music , and it's supposed to make us really sad that he's sad .  later on , patch makes a lot of progress : he helps a dying patient ( peter coyote ) to enjoy the last days of his life , and the music as patch is pushing the patient recklessly through the halls of the hospital is very lively .  and when that patient finally dies ( spoiler alert ! ) , the music is very very sad .  but the problem with all of this is that the music should not be the center of the emotions .  real drama is character-based .  you grow to like someone , and then something bad happens , and you feel it .  we don't ever grow to know the dying patient ; he's simply a vehicle for patch's greatness .  real drama doesn't seem forced , or present just to make the audience cry .  that's why patch adams is not real drama .  it goes for every cheap tear imaginable , wringing tired and overbearing sentimentality out of every scene .  even scenes that have very little impact on the overall film are drowning in marc shaiman's sickening musical score .  sentimentality like this is indeed bad .  but it's not as bad as half-baked , simplistic themes .  you see , patch is a really great student .  he aces his tests without studying , and does it so effectively that people think he's cheating .  but patch doesn't think that memorizing facts is the way to become a good doctor .   " why don't we see patients until the third year ? " he bursts out every three seconds .  well , patch , that might have something to do with the fact that you need to learn something before you go treating patients .  not everyone has the capability of memorizing facts with no effort .  most of us have to study .  and a doctor who really wants to help , but doesn't know a toe from a finger , probably won't be too successful in preventing death .  oh wait , i almost forgot : the point of doctors is not just to " prevent death , " but to " improve the quality of life ! "  yes !  that is true !  and you can not do that without studying .  you can not do that without going to medical school .  what patch never seemed to understand was the possibility that maybe , just maybe , it is a good idea to study first and talk to patients later .  follow the rules ?  bah !  who needs the rules !  only uptight doctors follow the rules .  the real saviors are the ones running around the hospitals with big red spheres on their faces and sporting baggy yellow pants .  and then there's the free clinic issue , which i find shockingly , frighteningly idealistic .  a free clinic .  in the middle of the forest .  where patients can be taken to be helped .  for free .  how will patients be transported to the free clinic ?  will it have an emergency room ?  or is it just for mental patients ?  and who , may i ask , will pay for it ?  the film does give some token attempts to question patch's motives ( i think another character asks him how he's going to pay for it , in addition to a little bit of meaningless blather about hmos and medical insurance ) , but they certainly don't explore or challenge patch's ideas to any meaningful extent .  reader , please understand this : i am not making any kind of judgment on the real patch adams .  i know nothing about him .  if his beliefs mirror those of this film character , then i might like to have an intelligent discussion with him about them .  but regardless of what the real patch adams believes , the themes put forth in this film are simplistic and phony .  and in the last scene , the big , obligatory courtroom scene that forced my lunch halfway up my esophagus , patch does a lot of shouting .  actually , robin williams does a lot of shouting .  he shouts a lot about helping people , and a lot of people cry because they are moved by his words .  i won't tell you that you can't be moved by his words , because i , too , was moved by his words .  i was moved in such a profoundly negative way that i was reminded of how cheap and phony a cinematic experience can be .  patch adams is the cheapest of them all . 
pos@ satirical films usually fall into one of two categories : 1 ) long-term satire where everything , including the jokes , is somehow related on a large scale ( i . e .   " dr .  strangelove " ; 2 ) situation satire in which the comedy and themes are derived moment by moment and scene by scene ( i . e .   " men in black " ) .  what's unique about " wag the dog " is that it doesn't necessarily fit either of these descriptions , and yet is both at the same time .  the result is a clever comedy based on an original , smart premise , even if the focus does tend to wander a bit .  if there's anything that affects americans the most it's politics and showbusiness .  in this age of information and technology , we've been so conditioned by the media and the entertainment industry in our ways of perceiving things , it's gotten to the point that we are practically controlled by it .  we need the media to bring us the most up-to-date news , but we also need the escapism of hollywood to counter all that thinking .  this film starts off well by quickly establishing these ideas , and then presents an interesting scenario : if politics , the media coverage of politics , and the entertainment industry are so closely related , couldn't someone with the power and authority to manipulate one of the aspects manipulate them all ?  that's the idea conrad brean ( de niro ) , a professional washington spin doctor , comes up with in order to restore the president's good name who has been accused of child molestation just weeks before the election .  brean , along with the president's top advisor , winifred ames ( heche ) , fly to california to meet up with hot-shot movie producer stanley motss ( hoffman ) .  they pitch him an idea to " produce " the image of a war with albania ( it's a country no one's heard of so they people will buy it ) .  soon the wheels are in motion and the film's riffing satire comes into play .  we're inundated with the hollywood mind set as motss brings in a number of experts to help manage the situation , such as a folk singer , visual and sound effects technicians , and a modern style expert known as the fad king ( leary ) .  the initial atmosphere is rich with numerous pop culture references where everything somehow relates to something on tv , in the movies , or in the news .  the characters' dialogue is witty and funny , although some of the actual jokes and gags seem rather sitcom-esque .  for example , one scene shows motss and brean's production crew filming an actress portraying a poor albanian refugee .  motss ordered a kitten for the girl to carry , but instead wound up with a dozen different dogs .  since it's all computer-enhanced anyway , she ends up cradling a bag of tostitos with the kitten to be inserted later .  this demonstrates the film's ability to take a relatively ordinary situation and make it smart and funny just through the premise .  but then there's the gags and one-liners that , although are humorous , seem a little gratuitious in the long run such as motss not being able to remember the actress's name , or , whenever a problem emerges , always responding with , " this is nothing ! "  by the time the film makes it to the midpoint , everything that is going to happen in terms of plot happens .  the first act is quickly paced , while the second act contains most of the jokes and is the core of the film .  every ten minutes or so a new problem crops up that motss and brean must deal with , and it's always fascinating to see what they do and how they do it .  the screenplay provides good characterization and actually deals with most of the problems head-on in realistic manners .  however , it does have a tendency to avoid things and shift its focus from the election campaign and false war smokescreen to something a bit off the subject .  as the third act rolls around the satirical nature becomes more concerned with the situations and less so with the big picture .  what had started off as a brilliant , somewhat harmless conspiracy to fool the general public begins to seem more like something that would happen in a movie .  still , the situation comedy is quite funny , especially a montage showing the entire country flinging old shoes into trees to honor sgt .  willie schumann - a war hero motss and brean concocted .  truly great satire manages to create for an entertaining story that makes you laugh at the time , but think about afterwards and " wag the dog " at least succeeds in this respect .  however , in retrospect it seems like so much more could have been done , namely by extending the running time and filling in the plot holes .  then again , it's a valiant effort . 
neg@ this movie is written by the man who is deemed to be " one of the hottest writers in hollywood " .  he wrote the groundbreaking screenplay for scream ( 8/10 ) , then added the successful i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 )  script to his mix , and also created the popular tv series " dawson's creek " .  so when he asked to direct his first movie , based on his first ever script written , everyone and their grandma said " sure , go for it ! " .  uhhm , my question is . . . did anyone bother reading this stupid script ? ? ?  plot : ace student leigh ann watson is mistakenly caught with some cheating papers by the bitchiest teacher in the west , mrs . tingle , and set to lose her scholarship to college .  when she and her friends visit the teacher at home in order to explain their side of the story , they end up tying her up , and slowly trying to talk some sense into the hardheaded woman .  critique : it's not so much that this is a bad movie , than the fact that it sucks .  this movie is chock-full of one-dimensional characters , contains no actual humor that i was able to zone in on , zero tension or thrills , plot holes the size of my big ass , lame pop tunes played to mask nothing going on in the movie , and molly ringwald , vivica a . fox and lesley anne warren tossed away in throwaway roles .  i was primed for this film as its interesting premise had me thinking misery ( 8/10 ) and 9 to 5 , but unfortunately for williamson , he went nowhere with the bright foundation , making references to the exorcist and dr .  zhivago , which i doubt many in his target market will appreciate .  he also forgot about suspense , with all of his characters based on incomprehensible decisions , unbelievable motivations and simply boring us with all of their trite dialogue .  sure , katie holmes is cute , and her co-star , marisa coughlan , did a reasonably amusing impression of the exorcist ( worth two points out of my three on ten ) , but how can we forgive the biggest one-dimensional character in any film , holmes' rival in the film , mrs . tingle's complete unprofessionalism being let go by all others around her ( are teachers allowed to behave that way nowadays ? ) and a transparent romance between holmes and some long-haired dude , hired to be the poor man's version of skeet ulrich ( who himself is a poor man's version of johnny depp ! ) .  all in all , this movie was laughable for me , provided me with no insight into anything , demonstrated williamson's genuine lack of directorial skills alongside a juvenile script , and provided helen mirren with a great role to chew into , unfortunately forgetting to give her character any believability , humanity or capacity to comprehend .  no hip lines , no cheap thrills , just a dull time at the movie theater .  if you want to see a funny teenage movie , go see detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) , and thank my drunken , sorry ass in the morning .  little known facts about this film and its stars : kevin williamson's father was a fisherman .  kevin used his knowledge of fishing hooks and winches when creating the killer in i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  he is also a huge fan of steven spielberg and coincidentally , so is dawson leery on tv's " dawson's creek " , a show kevin created .  he was once an aspiring actor .  in fact , he even landed a bit part on tv's " another world " .  also , williamson has gone on record to say that an unsupportive english teacher who once told him that he would never amount to anything was the inspiration for mrs . tingle , which is also loosely based on the book " killing mr . griffin " by the writer of i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) ,  lois duncan .  he has also come out and said that he is a gay man .  helen mirren was born in london , england under the name ilynea lydia mironoff .  she is married to director taylor hackford , whose works include devil's advocate ( 8/10 ) and an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) .  this film was originally titled killing mrs .  tingle , but was changed after the columbine high school shooting incident .  actress marisa coughlan will star in kevin williamson next tv project called " wasteland " .  this is actor barry watson first full feature film .  he has played the character of " seth " on tv's " malibu shores " several times . 
pos@ review : a dog of flanders is the story of an adorable little boy named nello and his trials and tribulations in 19th century flanders .  living with his grandfather jehan ( jack warden ) in poverty , nello finds happiness in his life in spite of difficult times ( they are renting a spare one-room cottage , and the greedy , malevolent landlord who owns it threatens to throw them `out of the house' if they don't pay the rent ) .  nello also has a rather creative talent for drawing some of the most beautiful pictures that i have ever seen , in either a movie or in real life .   ( his hero is peter paul rubens , the great flemish painter of the 17th century . )  not that these are the only things that make nello's life happy , however .  he has a dog of flanders , whom he names patrasche , who is a heroic rin-tin-tin of the 19th century , whom he rescues from his cruel , unkind master .  in addition , he even has a best friend ( and future sweetheart ) in the lovely , wealthy aloise , whose father strongly disapproves of her hanging out with `lower-class' nello .   ( he thinks he's not good enough for her , and he would hate the idea of the two kids marrying . )  but then , he was a poor guy himself before he married ( as mentioned later on in the film ) .  one day , nello encounters a mysterious , yet kindhearted artist named michel la grande ( played wonderfully by jon voight ) , who tells the boy to keep drawing from his heart , and that perhaps one day he might land a career in being an artist .  and every christmas , there is a contest on which is the most beautiful painting of the year ; the winner getting a lot of money .  eager to save his home ( and his aging , dying grandfather ) , nello willingly decides to become an artist , asking aloise to pose for him .  one night , the two travel to a circus , where they have their fortune told ? one of the film's most delightful scenes ? that great happiness is destined for them .  she gives the kids a ring , whom nello places on aloise's hand .   ; ) afterwards , the two kids have a rollickingly good time dancing around in front of circus performers .  unfortunately , things are not all `la-dee-dah' in this tale .  aloise's father finally becomes so angry with nello that he forbids him to ever see aloise again .  bad enough that they can't see each other ( although we know nello and aloise , don't we ? ) , but that's only the start of nello's troubles .  aloise's farm is burned down , and nello is wrongfully accused ( by the landord of his cottage ) for starting the fire in order to take revenge on being forbidden to see aloise .  this decreases nello's reputation around the town , save aloise and her parents , and a kindly miller , william , who is very sweet to nello every time he drops by .  matters get much worse for nello when his grandfather dies , and he has to pay for his funeral .  but then things really get nasty when the landlord exiles nello from his own home ( for not paying his rental ) ? permanetly .  this means that nello and patrasche have to starve and walk out in the cold , freezing wind .  worst of all , the painting that he has desperately been working on during all this time , `the portrait of the princess' , fails to win the prize at the festival .  now nello and patrasche are really depressed , and close to freezing to death .  will nello be able to find any happiness in his life ?  will patrasche save the day ?  will nello make the fateful trip to join his mother and grandfather in paradise ?  a dog of flanders is a delightful , heartwarming family film that is sure to entertain kids of all ages .  even older ones who consider themselves too `sophisticated' for kiddie fare will be surprised to hear that this film is for grown-ups , too .  there have been other movies of this ilk ( boy and dog ) , and while this one falls into that category , it is mostly a story about overcoming difficulties and finding a good home for yourself .  move over ? or rather , roll over ? old yeller , this dog of flanders is a heartwarming delight .  the cinematography , courtesy of walther van den ende is beautiful , and really adds to the powerful drama of the film .  it also gives a feel of being in flanders ( the whole film was respectably shot in flanders ) .  the music from richard friedman is also remarkable ; an evocative , poignant score that recaptures music from the 19th century .  the opening song over the credits is very beautiful ( i hope the soundtrack is available ! ) , and there's a brief excerpt of `cheer up , charlie' from willy wonka and the chocolate factory ( sung by aloise , to nello , in another delightful scene ) .  the cast is first-rate : jesse james and jeremy james kissner , who play nello , are some of the most endearing , adorable young stars i have ever seen in my whole life ( so are the girls who play aloise , madyline sweeten as the younger , and farren monet as the older ) .  not that they are the only good stars , however .  jack warden is ideal as jehan , eliciting just the right amount of humor and compassion required for the character .   ( the scenes involving him and nello are heartwarming , touching ones . )  also , bruce mcgill is charming as the kindly miller william .  he's another one of my favorite characters in the film .  but jon voight , as i mentioned before , is the perfect choice for michel .  he brings a mysterious , yet gentle performance that makes us all feel good again when he reassures insecure nello that he * can * win the contest .  but what makes this film fun to watch is how well-defined the characters are , and the pace of the story ( best of all , it has a happy ending ? though i will * not * give it away ; sorry ) is strong and powerful enough for us to identify with the characters .  for the first time since the beginning of 1999 , there comes a film which doesn't rely on popular formula stuff , such as big-budget special effects , commercial rock soundtracks , or any of that stuff .  this one relies on telling a fully character-oriented story , with just the right amount of heart , humor , and drama .  that , to me , is what makes a dog of flanders all the more delightful .  eleanor o'sullivan of `the home news & tribune' noticed this , and was kind and generous enough to welcome it : `for want of a better word , a glow surrounds a dog of flanders .  its heart is in the right place and it engages you .  you can guess where the film is going because this is well-traveled territory , but with pros like voight and appealing young performers like kissner , an often-told story is well worth a revisit . '  in addition , there were a couple of other enthusiasts , such as chicago-sun times and the washington post ( you should read their reviews ; they're really positive ) .  other critics , however , were not so kind .  stephen holden of `the new york times' had more than a share of beatings to lay upon a dog of flanders via pen writing .  he found the film to be a `sea of sugary bromides' and condemned mr . voight's character as `hopelessly wooden ? adopts an accent even more indeterminate than the one he came up with for anaconda . '  in addition , `entertainment weekly' slam-dunked the film , condemning it as `the worst family film of the year . '  there have been so many other bad reviews like this , too .  my suggestion : disregard the critics .  they just have a big problem with touching family films , and one should never pay attention to them .  this dog of flanders may only be a little `family' movie ( it probably won't be a big hit in the style of titanic , but then again no other film has been since then ) , but that is not a bad thing in and of itself .  this is a story that is sure to warm your heart , and that is what really matters about a dog of flanders .  it is also one of the better family films around this year .  none of the other films i have seen this year ( though they were good ) have been so low-key and touching .  if you're looking for family-style entertainment , look no further than this charming boy-and-dog yarn .  go see it while you still can , for as i mentioned , it might not be a big bow-wow at the box office for a long time .  see it while you can .  there is really no need to compare a multi-million dollar blockbuster such as star wars : episode i ? the phantom menace or tarzan , or even the iron giant with a tender , sweet little family movie . 
neg@ midway through " anaconda " , documentary filmmaker terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) turns to a co-worker and says " i thought this movie would be my first big break .  instead , it's turned into a disaster . "  truer words have never been spoken .   " anaconda " is a monster movie with a lousy monster .  it's a suspense film that is utterly predictable .  it's a mess the film does manage to drum up some scares , but only in the most elementary way , like a jack-in-the-box .  as you turn the crank , you're totally aware that the damn clown is going to pop up , but somehow it's still mildly startling when it happens .  the main difference between the giant snake in " anaconda " and the clown in a jack-in-the-box is that the clown is more realistic .   " anaconda " boasts some of the worst special effects to appear onscreen in years .  animatronic shots of the snake look as phony as any of those cringe- inducing robots you've endured at disney world .  but it's the computer animated scenes that truly expand the meaning of the word lame .  in one shot , a character tries to flee from the monster by diving from a tree near a waterfall , but the giant snake springs out and loops around its hapless victim in mid air .  the scene , if done well , would have been a jaw- dropper .  here , the horribly bad digital effects look less convincing than a saturday morning cartoon .  what's really amazing is that the filmmaker's were so proud of this dreadful shot that they actually included it in the promotional trailers for the movie .  but enough about the phony snakes .  now it's time to talk about the lousy story .  heroic and very pale anthropologist eric stoltz leads a documentary film crew down a brazilian river in search of the shirishama indians , a legendary tribe that supposedly lives in the boondocks of the rain forest .  stoltz tells his crew " pray that you didn't forget your bug spray . "  apparently the female crew members bathed in the stuff , because they spend most of the film wearing skimpy tops and short shorts with no ill effect .  along the way , the group rescues a whacked-out lapsed priest ( jon voight ) who claims to know how to find the shirishama .  within minutes , they throw away all their plans and follow voight down a tributary into the land of creepiness .  from that point on , the film is a hodgepodge of scenes and shots ripped off from " jaws " and " dead calm . "  one of the oddest structural points of the film is the handling of eric stoltz .  early in the story , his character gets knocked into a coma by a river insect and spends virtually the rest of the movie unconscious .  so why did they hire an actor of the caliber of stoltz for what amounts to a cameo appearance ?  also , why did stoltz , who generally selects his roles with great care , agree to appear in this crap ?  ah , the mysteries of hollywood .  the remaining crew members are basically just snake food waiting to happen .  jonathan hyde is mildly diverting as a pompous englishman hired to narrate the documentary , but lopez and ice cube manage to rise above their cardboard characters .  lopez , who starred in " selena , " is an enormously appealing performer , possessing a vibrancy that makes even the most trite lines seem credible .  ice cube has a special charisma ; an ability to look like a macho adult and a frightened boy simultaneously .  there's also a special twinkle in his eyes , as if he's gently mocking his own tough-guy posturing .  but the movie really centers around the outrageously hammy performance of jon voight .  obsessed with capturing one of the giant anacondas , voight plays the villain in thick accent , with a series of leers and hisses , spouting the kind of dialogue usually heard only in episodes of " jonny quest . "  at one point , he looms over the crew and says " the anaconda is the perfect killing machine .  it strikes , wraps around you , holds you tighter than your true love .  and you get the privilege of hearing your bones break before the power of its embrace causes your veins to explode .   " that moment is so high-camp that it almost made the film tolerable .  almost .  fans of the horror genre may be tempted to check out " anaconda . "  don't .  there are a lots of horror films scheduled for release this summer , including another " alien " sequel .  wait for them , rent " jaws " in the meantime , and don't throw away your money and time on drivel like this . 
pos@ the second jackal-based film to come out in 1997 ( the other starring bruce willis was simply entitled the jackal ) , this one stars aidan quinn and donald sutherland , and is directed by a man who hailed from joblo's own alma matter , concordia university in montreal , canada .  the story is based on the exploits of the real terrorist known as the jackal , but does not pretend to be 100% factual .  plot : naval officer ramirez ( quinn ) gets called upon by the cia to impersonate the international terrorist known as the jackal , in order to put an end to the actual militant's radical activities .  he is chosen for this role because he physically resembles the real terrorist to a tee .  ramirez reluctantly agrees to take part in this " assignment " , and soon finds himself wrapped up in a true web of international terrorism , intrigue and double-personality syndrome ( which does not sit well with his uninformed wife and kids back in the states . )  critique : great premise is executed with enough style and thrills to keep the piece interesting throughout its close to two-hour runtime .  admittedly , i wasn't a huge fan of any of the main actors in this film , and didn't expect much from this movie beforehand , but surprisingly it did have its thrilling moments , as well as a mostly plausible and absorbing story line .  the first hour is mostly just a build-up of things to come , and does offer a great characterization of the jackal , but the second hour is the one that really cranks in the cool scenes and a sweet ending .  quinn was adequate in both roles as naval officer ramirez and the real jackal , but didn't offer anything extraordinary , in my opinion .  sutherland and kingsley seem to be playing the same role that they've played in both of their respective careers of late , but nonetheless , appeared to relish the cold-heartedness of their chosen characters .  i didn't like performance put forth from quinn's wife in this flick , but then again , she doesn't show up in most of the film , so that wasn't so bad .  i did however enjoy director duguay's interesting style and cinematic vision .  this thriller could easily have been boring during many sequences , but duguay always seemed to find something interesting to show the viewer .  i thought that was neat .  having said that , i didn't think the first hour needed to be as long as it was , and the film did have me tinkering on the bridge of believability when the " fake " jackal met with the " real " jackal's girlfriend without much retrospection on her part , but all in all , not too many complaints in a movie that could easily be enjoyed by all those who take pleasure in the spy and terrorist thriller genre .  little known facts : ben kingsley's real name is krishna banji , he stands 5 " 8 , was born in scarborough , england , and won the best actor honor in 1982's academy awards presentation for the title role he portrayed in ghandi .  many scenes from this film were actually shot in montreal , canada ( joblo's haven of restfulness ) .  donald sutherland has fathered actor kiefer sutherland , is canadian , and apparently still owns a place in the north of montreal . 
neg@ robin williams is a comedic genus .  that is , he is one when he's in a film that allows him space to move .   " flubber " straps him in a straitjacket , covers him with duct tape , stuffs him in a coat closet and piles furniture against the door to make sure that he doesn't get out .  in a re-make of its own 1961 " absent minded professor " , disney offers us proof that more is definitely less .  recycling old films ( " that darned cat " , " 101 dalmatians " ) dressed up as new is the newest money machine from the home of the mouse that roared .  professor phillip brainard ( williams ) is a terminally forgetful scientist teaching at a small college .  his fiancee , sara jean reynolds ( marcia gay harden ) , president of the college is none too happy with him because he's left her waiting at the altar due to his lack of short-term -- and long-term -- memory .  she's giving him one more chance .  he blows that chance when he invents " flubber " ( flying rubber ) and is so excited by his discovery that sara jean is once again awaiting him in her white dress .  his tardiness is helped along by his jealous flying robotic assistant who wants him all to herself .  it's not all bad news .  flubber is a green jello that can magnify and reflect energy that is applied to it .  brainard realizes the commercial potential within the goo can save the school from bankruptcy and being taken over by the town's evil industrialist charles hoenicker ( raymond barry ) .  while he's busy with his new breakthrough , the slighted sweetheart is being wooed by his sleazy rival wilson croft ( christopher mcdonald ) .  there's a flying car , flubber-enhanced basketball game and an assortment of broken lab equipment : none of which are the least bit interesting or funny .  at one point , my son looked around the audience and asked " why are these people laughing ? "  although williams turns in one of his least inspired roles , he is easily the most lively of the actors .  everyone else comes across as half-asleep .  the re-make is successful in that respect .  it feels like a bad disney movie from the sixties .  i remember the original as being charming , but my guess is that the memory from almost four decades ago has been artificially enhanced by the years .  there have been some updates .  fred macmurray's flying model t has been replaced by a t-bird .  his faithful dog charlie is now " weebo " , the hovering robot .  the biggest change is that , with sophisticated computer animation , we now can have films show off special effects without being at all entertaining .  flubber is anthropomorphized into a being supposedly with personality .  the gloop has little arms and legs and splits into tiny little gloopettes for a big dance number .  this has nothing to do with the story .  the only possible reason is to create merchandising opportunities so that kids can badger their parents into taking them to mcdonalds for the toys .  not that contributing little to the plot is a big problem .  there are very few aspects of the film that move the story and those that do don't make sense .  the discovery of flubber is going to save the college because brainard can sell his flying car to ford .  anyone with half a brain would be able to see that his intelligent flying automaton is worth billions .  it's unbelievable that his lover ( well , probably not a lover -- after all this is disney ) starts dating croft after the aborted wedding .  there's not one appealing component of this man .  after the professor discovers that smearing a golf ball with the gunk causes it to bounce uncontrollably around his lab wreaking havoc , i cringed as he picked up a bowling ball .  this guy is beyond forgetful , venturing into the certifiable .  co-writer john hughes used to direct light-weight but thoughtful teen films .  the care behind " pretty in pink " and " the breakfast club " all went out the window after his " home alone " franchise heated up the box offices .  looking much like " home alone 3 1/2 " , " flubber " even features a couple of vapid goons who get banged around and a cute little boy who screams a lot .  in some ways , it's difficult to judge this film .  i have a suspicion that i'm not it's target audience .  after all , i measure my age in two digits . 
pos@ i rented this movie with very high hopes .  this movie got praise as one of the best films of 1998 , and unfortunately , was not as good as i hoped , but was still very intriguing and thought provoking .  first of all , the casting for this film is great .  tobey maguire and reese witherspoon are the future of hollywood .  they play their roles as the parker brother and sister perfectly .  with a plot as unbelievable as this film , you need chemistry and honest acting from your cast .  tobey and reese ( bud and mary sue parker ) play their roles perfectly and display their characters with honesty and believability .  william h . macy , an actor i have grown to love over the past year , turns in another great performance as the tv dad who is torn over his wife , a " colored " person and his friends , the " non-colored " ones .  he also displays believability and must display a certain lack of chemistry with his wife .  he does this perfectly and yet again shows why he should be one of the top actors in hollywood .  joan allen is equally great as betty parker , the ideal tv mom .  her character is the most ambitious .  she is very na ? ve , and must display this well to make her character believable and she does just that .  her lack of chemistry with macy , which the role calls for , and her developed chemistry with jeff daniels is terrific , and if daniels would have been as stellar as the rest of the cast , then this film would even been even better .  as said before , jeff daniels gives a bad performance .  his character displays the change going on throughout the town , yet he does not display it with enough conviction .  his character is very confusing and he is not very believable .  this film could have been elevated to a whole new level had daniels been able to give a better performance .  the movie is very provocative .  it challenges the issues of racism that existed in the past and that still exist today .  i really was not expecting all of the elements they brought up , but they pulled them off with such flair that it was mind blowing .  they demonstrate the racism issue without a hitch , but do it in a slow pace .  the only major flaw in the film besides the performance by daniels is length .  some films are not meant to be that long .  pleasantville is one of those films .  this film could have been so much better had they not moved so slowly to it .  first , they are amazed by the implementation of color .  then they want to have it .  then they do not want to .  then the war ensues between the colored and non-colored .  this is all strung out over two hours , which was way too long .  some movies need a lot of time .  saving private ryan was a little bit under three hours long and i thought it could have used more time .  this film is only two hours long , and seems much longer .  length is everything in films .  if you can nail down the perfect timing and pace , you can win half the battle .  pleasantville can move at a good pace at times , but it is not consistent enough .  overall , pleasantville is a very pleasant and provocative departure from the predictability of most films these days .  i went in expecting a light-hearted film about change .  i left learning an important lesson about racism and the way things change .  luckily , pleasantville teaches this lesson in such a way to make it appeal to all audiences .  only if it could have done in a shorter amount of time . 
neg@ phil ( radmar jao ) has a hairy problem .  his beard is growing so rapidly that he has to shave every hour .  he recently met the author of a non-fiction book on lycanthropy , also referred to in the movie as werewolfism , and phil now believes that his problem is that he has become a werewolf .  using enough chains and handcuffs to be a hit at a sadomasochists convention , he ties himself in at night lest his urges overcome him .  and phil is just one of the many quirky characters that inhabit shopping for fangs .  made on a pittance , the film features an almost exclusively asian-american cast .  as directed by quentin lee and justin lin , the movie is so amateurishly bad that it could almost be a parody of indie films .  jeanne chin plays katherine , a meek and soft-spoken wife , who worries that her husband is unhappy with her because she is not giving him enough sex .  we know this through the endless scenes of her confessing her sins , real and imagined , to her therapist .  as her husband , jim , clint jung plays a muscle man with a macho crudeness .  the picture is filled with stereotypes .  there's a mysterious , loud-mouthed waitress with a big , platinum blonde wig who brags to everyone she meets that she's a lesbian .  she spends most of the movie putting the moves on her favorite customer , a gay guy .  and the lone white with a major role , the author on werewolfism , has wildly unkempt , orangey blonde , curly hair .  from its opening scene of an attempted rape at knifepoint to its easy to guess ending twist , the script rarely has anything to offer .  the story is so minimally developed that it feels almost like the actors were ad-libbing .  one can only hope that the directors' next film will have some substance and some credible acting .  shopping for fangs runs 1 : 30 .  it is rated r for sex , violence , and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
pos@ after the press screening of " moulin rouge , " i stood in the lobby of the theater listening to the reactions of my friends and colleagues .  everyone seemed a bit numb , understandable after sitting through a barrage of often-incongruous sounds and images .  a pal of mine simply said that he loved the film and could hardly wait to take his wife to see it .  another enthusiast immediately began to analyze the production , while a woman who flat-out hated the movie gave him the skunk eye .  when one fellow quietly stated " i've never really been a fan of musicals , " the statement surprised me because , even though the story is told almost completely through song , i didn't think of it as a musical .  there is so much going on in " moulin rouge " that " musical " seems too small a term to cover it .   " moulin rouge " is the kind of creation that sends critics scurrying off to the big tub o' adjectives in search of proper words to describe the experience .  australian director baz luhrmann , the man behind " strictly ballroom " and " romeo + juliet , " fills the heads of viewers with unique camerawork , opulent imagery and songs ranging from " the sound of music " to " smells like teen spirit . "  sumptuous and beautiful , vulgar and overdone , " moulin rogue " travels through the looking glass while an ethereal stereo loaded with 50 years worth of catchy tunes operates on the " random " setting .  oh , and it has a story as well .   " it was 1899 , the summer of love . . .   " christian ( ewan mcgregor ) is a penniless young writer newly arrived in paris , " to write about truth , beauty , freedom and love , " where he encounters a group of bohemians , led by henri de toulouse-lautrec ( john leguizamo ) .  christian meets satine ( nicole kidman ) , a courtesan from the legendary moulin rogue , and his world transforms from black and white to technicolor .  at once fragile and vivacious , the dazzling red-haired woman sweeps him off his feet without even trying .  christian instantly falls in love with her and satine finds herself smitten with him as well , which is quite a hindrance for someone in her profession .  working with the bohemians and moulin rogue impresario harold zidler ( jim broadbent ) , christian writes an opus modestly named " spectacular spectacular . "  zidler quickly finds a backer , the wealthy duke of monroth ( richard roxburgh ) , but there's a catch ? the duke also wants the hand of the fair satine .  as if all that isn't enough , satine has a cough , and while a cough in the real world probably indicates a cold , it rarely turns out to be anything that simple in movie land .  like a teeter-totter , " moulin rogue " moves up and down between the ridiculous and the sublime .  one of the loveliest moments comes as christine and satine commune outdoors at night , becoming part of a defiantly unrealistic parisian cityscape straight from a book of fairy tales .  together they dance , while serenaded by the man in the moon ( alessandro safina provides the vocals ) , apparently transported from the classic georges m ? li ? s silent film to guard the nocturnal sky .  other scenes merely traffic in everything-and-the-kitchen-sink overload .  the cavorting of toulouse-lautrec and his comrades gets strained at times and some of their overt comedy , accompanied by cartoon sound effects , is overly reminiscent of the frenzied farce that sitcoms like " bewitched " beat into the ground .  of course , sensory overload was exactly what baz luhrmann had in mind .   " we never heard from baz to turn it down , " one of the actors told the los angeles times .   " it was always , 'more !  more ! ' "  the director even sent a note to his cast reading , " i dare you to make me say you've gone too far . "  the musical numbers reflect his attitude .  one knockout piece , the " elephant love medley , " incorporates the beatles' " all you need is love , " u2's " in the name of love , " dolly parton's " i will always love you " and elton john and bernie taupin's " your song . "  need more ?  how about " diamonds are a girl's best friend " spiced with portions of " material girl ? "  luhrmann's cast offers a wide variety of approaches that , together , add up to something messy , but often wonderful .  ewan mcgregor is extremely likable as christian , emphasizing the sincerity of the love-struck poet .  mcgregor's singing voice is robust and adds vigor at just the right moments .  once labeled the " ice queen , " nicole kidman melts that characterization with a sizzling , yet tender , performance .  she handles the songs adroitly , although her voice sounds a bit thin in the upper range .  veteran character actor jim broadbent is suitably larger than life as ringmaster zidler ? wait until you see him perform " like a virgin . "  as the buffoonish duke , richard roxburgh proves to be the film's weakest link , although i'm sure he was simply following instructions .  i suspect " moulin rogue " will be one of those love-it-or-hate-it films .  while i didn't completely love it , i most certainly liked it a lot .  over the course of a year , i see well over 300 movies , and most of them look like xeroxes of each other .   " moulin rogue " is an original , and an original , even a flawed one , is a thing to be cherished . 
neg@ wild things is a way to steam up an otherwise dreary early spring day ? provided , of course , that you're the victim of a frontal lobotomy .  there is , in fact , no doubt about who this motion picture is aimed at : movie-goers in their late teens and early twenties -- the most lucrative target group .  this is film noir for the mtv generation : fast-paced , slick , flashy , gleefully mindless , and hollow to the core .  wild things is easily one of the five dumbest movies to arrive in theaters during the first eleven weeks of 1998 .  i've seen more convincing drama ( with nearly as much bare flesh ) on that pinnacle of narrative quality , baywatch .  wild things wants to dupe viewers into thinking it's a thriller with a real story .  what it is , however , is a series of increasingly- improbable and shockingly predictable plot twists .  everything in between those serpentine moments is filler -- a flash of a breast , a spatter of blood , and some of the most idiotic dialogue this side of a steven seagal movie .  the film tries so hard to surprise its audience that the twists end up being easy to guess -- just take a stab at the most unlikely thing to happen , and that will probably be it .  using this approach , i was right three times and wrong only once .  that's not a good average for a production that wants to keep viewers in the dark about what's around the next corner .  the ad campaign uses two things to sell this movie : the hot , young cast and the old standby , sex .  both have an abundance of screen time , although i'll admit that the film's erotic content is somewhat less impressive than i expected .  nothing about wild things is exceptionally risqu ? .  the soft-core sex sequences are generic , and don't generate much heat .  the lesbian kisses can't hold a candle to those in bound .  theresa russell and denise richards have only token topless appearances ( neve campbell , possessing an iron-clad " no nudity " clause in her contract , keeps her clothes more or less on ) .  the film's greatest curiosity is a full frontal shot of kevin bacon climbing out of the shower .  maybe a few girls will skip seeing a fully-clothed leonardo dicaprio for the thirteenth time in titanic to catch a glimpse of what kyra sedgwick ( mrs .  kevin bacon ) is familiar with .  the director of wild things is john mcnaughton , whose last effort was the finely-tuned psychological thriller , normal life .  that movie featured copious sex , a pair of real characters , and a powerful script .  it's difficult to believe that something this shallow could come from the same film maker .  but i suppose we all need to put food on the table .  mcnaughton appears to have completely lost his way here , in what is obviously a stab at mainstream success ( his previous wide-release picture , mad dog and glory , was a box-office disappointment ) .  quick cuts and pretty sunrises can't even begin to cover up this movie's flaws .  the main character ( and i use that term lightly , since no one in wild things shows more than an occasional flash of personality ) is sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) , a guidance counselor at florida's blue bay high school .  a student , the deliciously curvaceous kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) , has a crush on him .  one afternoon , she comes to his house to wash his car , and , when she leaves , her clothing is torn .  after confessing to her mother ( theresa russell ) that she was raped , she goes to the police station , where she tells her story to detectives ray duquette ( kevin bacon ) and gloria perez ( daphne rubin-vega ) .  they are skeptical about here claims until another girl , suzie toller ( neve campbell ) , comes forward with a similar tale .  meanwhile , sam , convinced that he's being set up , goes to a shyster lawyer ( bill murray ) for help .  the acting in wild things isn't very good , but none of the principals have much to work with .  this is definitely not a character- based motion picture .  not only does the ludicrous screenplay ignore the possibility that someone in the audience may have a triple-digit i . q . , but it doesn't bother to give any of the on-screen individuals even a hint of depth .  the men and women populating the picture are there to look nice , but nothing more .  matt dillon is given plenty of opportunities to flex his biceps .  neve campbell gets to model the slutty look .  denise richards strikes a fetching pose in a see-through , one-piece bathing suit .  and nothing in the film gets a rise out of kevin bacon .  the only one who's even remotely interesting is bill murray , and he seems to think he's in comedy , not a thriller ( maybe he's got the right idea ) .  columbia pictures has specifically requested that critics not reveal the film's ending , which prompts the question : which ending do they want kept secret ?  wild things has no less than three ( one occurs during the end credits , so stay seated ) , all of which are jaw-droppingly absurd -- a feat that joe eszterhas ( the writer of basic instinct and showgirls ) would be impressed by .  thanks to jeffrey kimball's polished , kinetic cinematography , wild things always looks great , and george s . clinton's score keeps it pulsing and throbbing .  but , no matter how shiny the superficial sheen is , this is still trash , and , like all garbage , it stinks . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " the closet " ( miramax films )  in this hilarious french farce , a shy , boring accountant ( daniel auteil ) named francois pignon discovers he's going to be fired from his job at a condom factory .  lonely and distraught , he contemplates suicide .  but then he runs into belone ( michel aumont ) , an elderly homosexual neighbor , who suggests a " sex discrimination " lawsuit to intimidate management .  as evidence , belone concocts provocative photographs of pignon locked in a leather-clad embrace with another man and mails them anonymously to pignon's boss .  when the racy snapshots start circulating around the factory , not only does pignon get his job back but he suddenly finds himself the focus of attention as an openly gay man .  his lusty supervisor ( michele laroque ) is so intrigued that she wonders if , perhaps , she could change his sexual preferences .  even his ex-wife ( alexandra vandernoot ) and indifferent teenage son ( stanislas crevillen ) drop their disdain .  but not everyone is enchanted .  a mucho macho co-worker felix ( gerard depardieu ) , a self-righteous homophobe , is stunned and repulsed when he's forced by the pr director ( thierry lhermite ) to grovel and court pignon's friendship or risk losing his own job .  writer/director francis verber artfully milks the farcical comedy as he dissects the hypocrisy of political correctness , veering off-track only occasionally into pedophilia .  daniel auteuil ( " the widow of saint-pierre " ) is delightful - particularly with a blown-up condom perched on his head , riding on a float in a gay pride parade - and gerard depardieu delivers one of his most restrained , and effective , performances .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the closet " is a frankly sexual , adult 8 .  it's so clever , in fact , that hollywood is already planning to re-make it in english , like " la cage aux folles . " 
neg@ there have been bad films in recent years : 'mr .  magoo' was by far the worst ever made , the spectacularly bad 'blue in the face' , the horrible 'baby genuises' and now 'i woke up early the day i died' .  it may not however be the worst movie made but it certainly ranks as one bad movie .  the film's acting ( if that's what you want to call it ) is well mediocre to me .  loaded with a sensational cast you would think that the cast would at least save the film a bit , boy was i wrong .  after escaping from a mental institution 'the thief' played by billy zane goes out in the real world and finds that it is pretty harsh and gritty .  he turns to burglary to survive , robs a loan back , kills the loan officer and runs with thousands .  a country-wide man hunt is on for him to catch him and bring him down .  he ends up in a cemetery where he puts his money in a coffin to keep it for later , comes back and realizes that someone took it and put it somewhere .  now he is determined to kill all the visitors at the funeral earlier that day until he gets his money back , ultimately leading to a finale that is less that satisfying .  a film which was based on a 'long-lost' script by ed wood , i have only one question : no dialogue , only music and movement where exactly is the point ?  the film moves along at a rather slow pace , but does have one advantage : the soundtrack which is catchy and vibrant except the first song which can be offensive to some .  it opens with a fun , innovative opening credits sequence and quickly goes downhill after that .  some of the low points are when 'the thief' steals a woman's purse , and then she faints , sandra bernhard as a dancer and tippi hendren as a deaf woman whom 'the thief' kills to the music of 'psycho' .  come on people get some new ideas already !  what's even worse is that the film has no plot at all .  well to a certain extent it does , but who cares by the time the middle of the film arrives we're bored out of our mind and ready for something fun and exciting to happen .  'i woke up early the day i died' is a perfectly bad film .  it shows us how low filmmakers get sometimes just when desperate to make a movie .  even with the huge cast talent , the film is a waste of my time and certainly a waste of yours . 
pos@ everyone's heard about this movie , and more specifically , * the * scene .  everyone's heard the famous barnyard animal quote squealed ( no pun intended ) over and over .  and everyone's got to admit that they will never travel down a river again without thinking of deliverance .  good !  that's what you're supposed to do !  oh , if you are one of the ones who hasn't seen this yet , or you ( somehow ) haven't heard about what happens , here's your spoiler warning .  deliverance was a real shocker for it's time ( 1972 ) .  major advances were being made in films , and deliverance made its own advances when it introduced a new horror into the film industry .  when it was first released , it literally shocked the audiences .  it was something that , for the most part , had really never been seen on the big screen before ( among wide-release films with an r rating ) .  but by today's film standards and in today's world , such scenes as the one in deliverance can be reproduced in a way that isn't as shocking , although they can be even more graphic ( e . g .  pulp fiction ) .  pulp fiction did it in a way , and expanded on it in a way , that it could even be interpreted as funny .  but in 1972 , deliverance was no laughing matter .  the story centers around a group of four atlanta men who decide to take a rafting trip down a backwoods river in georgia while the river is still there and in its glory .  the initial leader of the group is lewis ( burt reynolds in his prime ) , a real outdoorsman and more of a daniel boone-type then any of the others .  joining him are ed ( jon voight ) , bobby ( ned beatty ) , and drew ( ronny cox ) .  the group's first objective is to find someone ( s ) to drive their cars down the river to the point where they will end their trip .  they make arrangements with a few mountain men , who accept $40 . 00 for the task .  drew also has the famous " dueling banjos " competition with a local who is , let us say , genetically challenged .  the men then set off down the river , with lewis , also the master at canoeing , leading the way .  everything seems to be going fine , until the two canoes split up , leaving the unexperienced ed and bobby alone .  they encounter two hillbillies , armed with a shotgun , who captured them .  ed is tied to a tree while bobby is sodomized by one of the men .  ed nearly receives the same cruelty , but lewis arrives just in time to fire an arrow through the rapist's back .  the other hillbilly gets away , and the men have to decide what to do with the dead body .  disposing of dead bodies is done rather frequent throughout this film .  while attempting to make a quick " paddle for it " , both canoes tip over .  drew , who was without a life jacket , was possibly shot and cannot be found .  lewis suffered a rather nasty compound fracture during the incident and is in serious condition .  this leaves ed and bobby .  ed decides to go out and look for the remaining hillbilly , alone , with the bow and arrow .  the question arises if he will be able to handle himself , as he horribly botched a first shot attempt at a deer , to which his comment " i wonder how anyone could kill a living thing " will have more meaning in the future .  deliverance is definitely a wild ride ( oops , i'm doing it again ) .  it is extremely tense at some points and very dramatic .  it's definitely one of those " must see " movies and should be considered one of the classics of its decade . 
neg@ first troy beyer wrote the critically panned " b . a . p . s . "  now she makes her directorial debut , writing , directing , and starring in this sub-par film about women talking about sex .  though not without redeeming qualities , this film is bad .  the basic story follows three single friends -- jazz ( beyer ) , lena ( randi ingerman ) , and michelle ( paget brewster ) -- in their search for love .  jazz has an idea for a local talk show ; it would feature women talking about sex and dating .  she and her friends make a demo tape of interviews with the women of miami .  the film itself is sprinkled with these real interviews throughout , both as part of the plot and as commentary on the situations of the main characters .  the fact that they are real provides a refreshing break from some of the more melodramatic moments in the film .  there are several moments of bad acting , corny dialogue , and emotional overextension .  in a low-budget independent film from a first-time director , these faults can sometimes be forgiven , if the screenplay is fresh and solid .  that is not the case here .  the script suffers from random plot developments .  there are four or five of these turns in the plot , each one raising the question " where did that come from ? "  at one point , a character has a lifelong reconciliation with her mother .  we are supposed to be moved , but since the scene is completely un-led-up to , we really don't care if she and her mother get along .  we've never seen her mother before .  we never see her again .  who cares ?  what's worse , these sudden developments are supposed to engage our sympathy .  at another point , a character announces that she can't have children .  apparently , this is devastating .  we wouldn't know this because she never talked about having kids before , but we are nevertheless expected to be devastated for her .  the scene feels like an afterthought , its emotion manipulative and shallow .  these scenes grow worse and worse , culminating in an absurd climax .  two scenes were played with such overwhelming melodrama that i found myself laughing .  one scene is a lover's spat between two minor characters .  the other has the main characters expressing their copious grief by cleaning house in wails of despair and clouds of ajax .  thinking on these scenes , it is hard for me to admit that the film has redeeming qualities .  but it does .  first , it is original .  we men often wonder what women talk about when they are alone in groups , and i imagine this film gives me a pretty good idea .  it's something i don't think has been the subject of a film .  second , the interviews of the miami women are sincere .  taken together , they form a mosaic picture of miami beachwalkers and bistro diners .  the mosaic is made of sound bites and stereotypes , but each tile is some woman's real experience .  neither the picture of women , nor their picture of men , is truly representative , but the point is that both sets of generalizations are telling in their own way .  at some level , the stereotypes that emerge can be called true .  i can imagine some people liking this film when its characters talk about their " likes , dislikes , skills , and thrills , " but on the whole , it's pretty bad .  and that makes it even harder to forgive the bad acting , corny dialogue , and emotional overextension .  i'll give beyer one more strike , and then she's out .  rated r ( almost got an nc-17 ) for explicit sexual dialogue and nudity . 
pos@ insane ( but inspired ) musical about alferd packer , the first man ever tried for cannibalism in america .  as the story unfolds we learn what events led to packer ( trey parker ) supposedly killing and eating the five men who got lost while accompanying him through the mountains of colorado in search of gold .  throughout , packer must contend with evil trappers bent on stealing his prized horse , a tribe of `ute' indians that doesn't seem quite on the mark , and a terrible winter storm that leads to the eventual cannibalism .  parker obviously knows his musicals very well , because the viewer is also treated to some of the most maddeningly catchy songs to appear in a film ( he would accomplish this again in his post-cannibal !  musical motion picture , south park : bigger , longer , and uncut ) .  apart from the inherent interest of seeing a pre- " south park " parker and stone in their first effort , cannibal !  also offers up some pretty decent laughs .  the aforementioned `ute' indian tribe that packer's group encounters is a definite highlight , as are two rousing musical numbers about snowmen ( one of which ends on a comedically deadly note ) .  stone's humphrey character steals the show , especially when complaining about the prospect of having to `eat butt' or revealing what's underneath his muff cap .  jason mchugh's character of mr . miller is the stand out performance though , as he offers a hilarious dissenting voice to the proceedings .  as i mentioned before , parker's songs are very catchy .  you'll be hard pressed to get `it's a shpadoinkle day' out of your head once you've heard it ( incidentally , the braniff logo that appears at the end of every " south park " episode is scored with a few notes from this song ) .  other songs you'll find yourself humming include `when i was on top of you' ( a love ballad ) , `the trapper's song' ( the villains leit motif ) , and `hang the bastard' ( the rousing finale ) .  thankfully , none of these songs are quite as embarrassing to find yourself singing in public as south park : bigger , longer & uncut's songs are .  released as a pick-up through troma studios , the film is available on videocassette and dvd .  the videocassette includes an intro by the beautiful jane jensen and an interview segment with lloyd kaufman , discussing his admiration for parker and stone and the fact that they had been hired for a zucker brothers film ( which turned out to be the hilarious baseketball ) .  there are also multiple trailers for upcoming troma films .  as for the dvd . . .  well , that's a different story .  probably one of the best dvd packages of the year ( and potentially of all time ) , cannibal !  the musical !  the dvd is a massive achievement .  presented in 1 . 33 : 1 ( full frame ) only , the disc has the usual troma inclusions : the tour of troma , the troma intelligence test 2 , trailers for upcoming releases , but where the disc truly shines is in its cannibal !  specific extras .  the first thing i must note is , the transfer is about as beautiful as any i've ever seen on any disc .  the picture is crisp , clear , and free from any noticeable artifacts .  add to that one of the funniest commentary tracks i have ever heard , featuring trey parker , matt stone , jason mchugh , dian bachar , and andy kemler getting drunker and drunker as the track continues and you still haven't scratched the surface of the extras .  there's also behind the scenes footage of the shooting of the film , a clip with trey , matt , and lemmy ( of the band motorhead ) from the film terror firmer , an index for easy location of all of the songs in the film , and finally , an index of all the songs as performed by the cast of a stage production of cannibal ! .  it's good to see this film finally get the treatment it deserves .  kudos to the entire production staff at troma and aix for making one of the most entertaining dvds i have seen in a very long time . 
neg@ capsule : dumb dud of an entry in the body heat sweepstakes , and now something of a landmark for having spawned a jillion clones .  basic instinct's worst crime is that it's not just a bad movie , but in many ways , an incompetent one as well .  it's stupid in itself , and stupid to think its audience is as stupid as it is .  it's supposed to be a thriller , but the plot is dead on its feet , and ultimately arbitrary ; it's only put into the movie to jerk us around .  it's also supposed to be sexy , but it's instead got the unpleasant rawness of a teenager showing younger kids his collections of dirty pictures .  it's a ripoff .  the story opens with a rock star being murdered while in the throes of orgasm .  the biggest suspect is an authoress , catherine tramell ( sharon stone ) , who wrote a novel in which the murder was eerily presaged .  or maybe it's the work of a copycat ?  these and other plot threads get fed to the detective who's on the case ( michael douglas ) , who has a few problems himself .  like we wonder if his elevator goes to the top floor .  we can measure with a stopwatch the time from them setting eyes on each other to the moment they are doing the mattress dance .  joe eszterhas has written the screenplay , and he uses a device that he used before in the much better jagged edge : the killer's identity is kept a secret until the movie's final shot .  this isn't in itself a problem -- the problem is that up until that point , we've been given nothing to work with .  every clue in the movie -- every clue -- is ambiguous .  the whole thriller aspect of the movie is a shill .  red herrings , dead plot threads , violence , and kinky sexuality litter the movie like potholes in manhattan streets .  they add up to zip , because they're not happening to people we care about .  douglas's character is foulmouthed and bitter and that's it ; stone's character has an iron-on smile that never changes ; the rest are forgettable .  when we don't even have the luxury of giving a damn about anyone in the movie , who cares what happens in it ?  especially with an ending that is not only unsatisfying , but in many ways inexplicable ?   ( a friend of mine once came up with a rule of thumb about movie characters : " if no one in the movie behaves like anyone you know , or would * care * to know , just leave ! " )  one of the nastier things about the movie is the way it treats lesbianism not as an integral part of someone's life , but as a kind of kink -- something to thrill men with .  i despair whenever i encounter this kind of stupidity in mainstream entertainment ; are we still so culturally neanderthal that the only way to include something like that in a big-budget hollywood film is as a hefnerism ? 
pos@ a big surprise to me .  the good trailer had hinted that they pulled the impossible off , but making a blues brothers movie without jake blues ( john belushi ) is such a dumb idea i really had no hope .  they replaced him just fine .  not with john goodman , he didn't do much of anything , but with the brilliant actor joe morton , who can really sing .  the fourth blues brother is j evan bonifant , who's ten .  this was another of my fears for the film , but he's a really good dancer , and plays a mean harmonica ( although he may have been dubbed ) .  things that intellectually had bothered me before , like no mission from god , everyone being richer , it not being filmed in chicago -- gave me no problems at all .  i'm quite pleased that there were less car pile-ups , because they meant less music , and john landis seems to have lost interest in the whole thing .  there's a few early crashes , and then one huge pile-up , but after that it all stops .  it's just the music .  one of my problems with the first is that cab calloway's song is so good the actually blues brothers look dull after him , but there's no problems with this .  the music is all as good as ever , tons of great musicians showing up -- with the exception of johnny lang , who can't sing , all the musicians do a great job .  the only real problems i had was the special effects .  these were superfluous and a waste of money .  since the film isn't doing very well , they could mean we have no possibility of another sequel , which i want to see .  the bluegrass version of riders in the sky is even better than rawhide .  -- http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/academy/8034/  remove no spam to reply .   " drive carefully but recklessly " , mama , child's toy " the only excercise i take is walking behind the coffins of friends who took exercise . "  peter o'toole 
neg@ in the line of duty is the critically praised series of television movies dealing with the real-life incidents that claimed lives of law enforcement officers in usa .  the twilight murders , another one from the series , is dealing with the case of gordon kahl ( played by rod steiger ) , old farmer from north dakota who would rather spend a year in prison than pay taxes to the despised u . s . government .  after being released , he still refuses to pay taxes and the warrant is issued for his arrest .  when the u . s . marshals come to arrest him , it turns out that kahl isn't alone .  many poor farmers in rural northwest share his extremist anti-government beliefs , and the routine operation turns into shootout that would leave federal officers that .  that brings fbi on the scene , and agent mayberly ( michael gross ) is supervising the manhunt .  however , his efforts seem fruitless , since kahl still has many supporters , some of them even in the local law enforcement .  after betrayed , 1988 thriller by costa gavras , hollywood mostly ignored the disturbing trends of rising right-wing extremism in the american northwest , and that remained so until oklahoma city bombing , when media hype brought right-wingers back into spotlight .  until that time , only the television movies like this one bothered to pay attention to that phenomenon .  unfortunately , the twilight murders is still routine and formulaic television film , that uses sensationalist real life content in order to cover lack of originality in the script .  sometimes , like many american tv movies , it creates drama where drama shouldn't be .  on the other hand , film is steadily directed by dick lowry , and rod steiger does good job potraying gordon kahl .  on the other hand , michael gross as his pursuer is quite wooden and his interaction with some of the actors is terrible .  however , film does deal with potentially thought-provoking social and political issues , so hour and half spent in front of the screen shouldn't be the total waste of time . 
pos@ disney's 35th animated feature-- a retooling of the olympian legend crossed with , well , the superman story-- is surprisingly soft at the center .  great wit , great art , and a great villain ( james woods as hades , lord of the underworld and local lounge act ) can't quite stifle the yawns induced by a bland hero , his colorfully monotonous sidekick ( danny devito as the satyrical trainer phil ) , and a largely unremarkable soundtrack .   ( none of the alan menken/david zippel tunes are particular- ly noteworthy .  some lack lyrical snap .  others need more memorable melodies .  boring ballads we expect , but boring production numbers , too ? )  so , hercules is a bit of a long sit , but you won't stay bored .  the highlights include a nifty round of animated action ( herc battling a cgi hydra ) , a steady stream of anachronisms ( " somebody call ix-i-i " ) and pop references ( " let's get ready to rumble ! " ) a la aladdin , and several long-overdue jabs at the mouse's marketing and merchandising depart- ments .  while not as rock-solid as hunchback , it's a still a new world of improvement over pocohontas .  directed by ron clements and john musker , with voice credits including tate donovan , susan egan , bob goldthwait , matt frewer , samantha eggar , paul shaffer , and , as lighting bolt zeus , rip torn , who's having a very good summer , also appearing in trial and error and men in black . 
neg@ you know that a movie has issues when most everyone in the audience comes out laughing . . . and  it's not a comedy !  and what a strange career path for director chuck russell .  he starts his career off with a decent take on the " nightmare on elm street " series with his debut as director on installment number three .  he follows that up with the blob the very next year , but waits another six years to do his next piece , a little film called the mask starring jim carrey , and then one more star vehicle in eraser two years after that .  so then he thought , " let me wait another five years , get a weak script jammed with cliches and hope that jimmy smits and kim basinger could pull it out of its ashes " ? ! ?  strange dude and one crappy flick .  plot : a six-year old girl is believed to be some kind of mysterious prophet sent down from god .  a satanic cult wants the girl to switch over to their side , while the girl's aunt wants to . . . well ,  save her from those damn devil worshippers !  enter one occult expert agent , plenty of bobo cops and lots of nuns praying , and you've just about got the gist of things here .  critique : with plot holes the size of my ass , this movie barely squeezes any sense out of its clich ? -ridden plot , with wasted talent , cheezy effects , bad dialogue and unintentional laughs to boot .  what's good about this movie ?  well , rufus sewell is pretty fun to watch as the head of a creepy runaway children's shelter/satanist supreme , with seriously wicked eyes and just enough ham in his performance to go with all of the cheese lying around .  the little girl is also pretty good but unfortunately her character doesn't really do all that much .  and believe it or not , i was actually enjoying some of the film's first half hour , which starts off with some promise , but not before bonehead moves after bonehead moves from our protagonist , basinger , just drown the film's entire basis of believability .  for some reason , it takes her more time than anyone to figure out that her niece is gifted , and even longer to figure out that every move that she makes . . . is  a dumb one !  add that to the entire police force of incompetents , save for jimmy smits ( whose talent agent advised him that playing the exact same cop character from nypd blue would be a good career move ?  at least change the clothes , jimmy ! ) , zero scares , zero thrills and even less actual drama , and you've got yourself a pretty bad movie .  and why would respected actors like christina ricci and ian holm take bit parts in this movie ?  did they owe the director a favor or something ?  together , they barely have five minutes of screen time , but i suppose that ricci's hospital room scene might be worth a look for some of you horn-dogs .  the worst part about this movie is its hilariously unbelievable ending , which features police officers coming up with the brilliant idea of " sneaking up " on a man's house , who they know to be guilty of a crime !  uuuhmm . . . how's  about knocking on the door and arresting his sorry ass , officers ? !  anyway , i don't usually inscribe spoilers in my reviews but the stupidity of some of these characters is just too difficult to describe without validating it with solid idiotic proof ( and there was plenty to go around ) .  and did basinger lose some of her acting " talent " during her hiatus from the profession after her 1997 oscar win ?  difficult to say if it was her lines that were really bad , or if she just delivered them poorly .  either way , little originality , very obvious computer effects , little thrills , little drama and very little entertainment value , certainly bestow the honor of one of the worst movies of the summer upon this film .  but if you really don't mind a rehashed gobbledygook of various satanic and " kid " -based thrillers , and enjoy watching films that don't bring anything new to the table . . . well ,  drink some beers , smoke some beans and rent this video , because it may just be one of the funnier thrillers of the year . 
pos@ `strange days' chronicles the last two days of 1999 in los angeles .  as the locals gear up for the new millenium , lenny nero ( ralph fiennes ) goes about his business of peddling erotic memory clips .  he pines for his ex-girlfriend , faith ( juliette lewis ) , not noticing that another friend , mace ( angela bassett ) really cares for him .  this film features good performances , impressive film-making technique and breath-taking crowd scenes .  director kathryn bigelow knows her stuff and does not hesitate to use it .  but as a whole , this is an unsatisfying movie .  the problem is that the writers , james cameron and jay cocks , were too ambitious , aiming for a film with social relevance , thrills , and drama .  not that ambitious film-making should be discouraged ; just that when it fails to achieve its goals , it fails badly and obviously .  the film just ends up preachy , unexciting and uninvolving . 
neg@ it's almost amusing to watch 21-year old christina ricci get drastically overshadowed in sally potter's follow-up to 1997's the tango lesson , the man who cried .  the gen-y actress , with her cold stare and big , black eyes , has appeared in an impressive range of films ; but she doesn't even come close to being the bold heroine the film , set against the historical backdrop of world war 2 , requires her to be .  ricci , whose character is shockingly silent and blank , showing only the occasional smile or hint of concern , shares most of her scenes with the astounding cate blanchett : quite an amusing sight to behold .  blanchett's lola , a paris dwelling dancer who befriends the aspiring singer suzie , is bold , interesting and layered ? everything our heroine lacks .  co-star of the upcoming lord of the rings trilogy , blanchett has a good seven inches on ricci , sports twice the makeup and dons a flashy wardrobe .  the actress inhabits the role ? as she always so remarkably does ? with a fervor and life that makes you want her to hold the screen as the film's lead rather than her dull companion .  important historical events involving hitler and his nazis scatter themselves across the film ; these landmarks serve as the film's little conflict .  obviously , the tables are turned in the life of suzie by these events , whose jewish origin is unknown among her parisian colleagues .  the man who cried has many aspirations , none of which come full circle by the film's close .  there are forced messages here and there : " go forward ; always go forward , " lola preaches to suzie ; there's romance between suzie and a fellow target of hitler's nazis , the gypsy cesar ( johnny depp , who , like ricci , barely gets to speak ) ; lola struggles with her character that desires above all things wealth and men who have it ; and at the core of all these devices lies suzie's desire to travel to america , where her father journeyed after leaving her and her mother years ago .  the film's main problem is that potter isn't skilled enough to tell the epic-sized story of suzie .  the time period's instability , the conflicting social classes , the prejudice against suzie from all those around her in her new life : serving as both writer and director , potter throws in some of each , but hardly an inch of depth is to be found in any .  by the time the sigh-inducing climax hits , the believability and complete absence of focus leave one ready to leave the theater .  the film's falling action is weirdly unsatisfying and unlikely ; are we really meant to believe any of this could happen ?  contrastingly , in its moving final scene , the man who cried strikes a note that is made effective in its ties to the emotional beginning of the film .  although it's apparent that potter can't grasp what she reaches , i'm puzzled as to why she reaches for so much in the first place .  ricci's suzie is meant to be the film's core : from the extended flashback at the film's beginning to the quickly drawn ending , everything seen in the film , in some way , relates to her .  so why then does potter spend so much time on subplots involving other individuals ?  the character of suzie is too present for the man who cried to work as an ensemble , but not present enough for the film to be ricci's .  the almost constant lack of flow and one-note tone with which potter depicts the man who cried are somewhat improved upon by sacha vierny's beautiful cinematography that renders the film's various locations wonderfully .  also worthy of note are lindy hemming's costumes that help to depict the area quite nicely .  and then there's the music .  from minute one to minute ninety-seven , there's hardly a moment when the wavering , skilled voice of an opera singer or the rhythms of the gypsy music don't undercut the action ; the notes stricken both overwhelm ( particularly john turturro , portraying fictional opera singer dante dominio , whose money and reputation catch lola's interest ) and accompany ( oftentimes , the perfect chords are captured to undermine the state of the film's characters and reinforce that state ) .  potter obviously cares much about each and every musical note ; unfortunately , the same effort isn't given towards ( almost ) everything else . 
pos@ do you want to know the truth about cats and dogs ?  do you ?  well , as this movie shows us , they make good companions but pale in comparison to the joy and fulfillment romantic relationships can bring .  unfortunately , there's a giant roadblock set up in our culture that only certain people can get through while the rest of us mill around outside , feeling sorry for ourselves .  a checkpoint beautiful kind of thing , and janeane garafolo's character abby relates to it well .  like a certain oversized teenage movie critic , she is intelligent and has a great sense of humor but strikes out with the opposite sex because she sees herself as physically unattractive , and the men seem to be backing her up on that .  meanwhile , her gorgeous neighbor nora ( uma thurman . . .  uma being the only woman's name worse than nora ) attracts men like flies .  as abby tells her , " you burp and they think it's cute .  you barf and they line up to hold your hair back . "  but nora's down on herself for being too shallow and superficial .  we all have our prwhen a man calls in to veterinarian abby's talk radio show wanting to know how to get the roller skates off his basset hound .   ( oh come on , any idiot knows how to handle that problem ! )  he likes her personality and professional demeanor and asks to meet her in person .  abby , though , knows her body doesn't match her personality and that she probably won't have a chance with him once he sees her .  so she gives him nora's body description and stands him up .  nora happens to be in the studio the next day when the dog man comes by and abby asks her for a big favor .  she goes along with the masquerade and the three of them head out for a night of fun , abby assuming the role of a goat cheese farmer named donna .  the dog man finds out even though this girl is beautiful , she's not quite as intellectual or confident about herself in person , but he doesn't suspect anything , realizing he's not living in a " three's company " episode .  the charade continues , with abby furthering the relationship over the phone ( including a decidedly unnecessary phone sex/masturbation sequence ) and nora furthering it in person , while eventually finding herself attracted to the dog man .  like sleepless in seattle , this comedy/romance is predictable all the way through , but we care enough about the characters that we root them on and will the romance to blossom .  the truth about cats and dogs isn't quite as entertaining as i was expecting it to be , but it handles well a theme i could identify with .  the thing is , i find janeane garafolo rather attractive .  she's no uma but i'm sure in real life she'd have no problems attracting men .  i , on the other hand , couldn't attract a man to save my life . . .  and am rather proud of that fact . 
neg@ there isn't much good about this movie .  not much i can say about the acting , directing , or writing that would make you consider seeing this movie .  so i'll get my one good comment out of the way , at least joel schuemacher ( batman & robin ) didn't direct it or it would be titled " technicolor city " .  in fact there is nothing colorful about this movie , its dark and depressingly gloomy right down to the bitter end .  the plot has a tendency to be interesting , but all that passes while your laughing at the ridiculous things thrown into what could have been a fascinating movie .  the plot is impossible to explain due to how senseless it gets , so i will just touch on the bare minimum .  john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) awakes in the bathtub of a cheap hotel , only to find out he has forgotten everything .  john must find out who he is before the " strangers " ( a . k . a .  mind erasing aliens ) find him and use him for their own evil conspiracy .  during the film some interesting points are raised about human individuality , and the existence of inherently evil people .  any of these points however are completely " erased " from your mind as you watch the actors stumble through the dreadful script .  as i mentioned earlier , nothing but the atmosphere is right in this film .  the acting is bland , and since there is virtually no character development no one seems to care .  the special effects are low budget and some even hilariously fake , a sign of a true " b-movie " .  the direction is poor and there is little continuity , not that you would expect it in a movie switching realities constantly .  lastly the script is weak and has no concept of reality , and doesn't deserve to have the word " science " in science-fiction .  if i haven't got my point across , i'll say it more plainly : this is a bad movie .  lets hope the next movie by alex " i wish i was tim burton " proyas is at least tolerable . 
pos@ if he doesn=92t watch out , mel gibson is in danger of being known as someone other than mad max .  of course there are still a few big guns in this film , but there=92s some accomplished acting too .  although gibson continues to shed his rough and gritty anti-hero skin as his career progresses , here he explores a new genre : the businessman as action hero .  in ron howard=92s latest film , gibson plays tom mullen , a gazillionaire airline owner whose son is snatched from the junior science fair by kidnappers .  mullen at first agrees to pay the ransom , but when things fall apart he rethinks the situation .  a veteran of numerous hard-nosed business negotiations , the tycoon realizes that in order to get his son back alive , he has to play his hand differently .  the casting is what puts this film over the top .  the trio of gibson , the kidnappers' mastermind ( gary sinise ) and fbi team leader ( delroy lindo ) play off of each other wonderfully .  sinise is perfect as the driven scheming sleezebag is right on the mark .  his speech to mullen over a walkie talkie about h . g . wells=92 morlocks and eloi reveal his vision of=  society . mullen and the other glitteratti frolic up on high while sinise and the other lowlifes dwell below , feeding off the unsuspecting .  gibson=92s character is an all-american hero with a few flaws .  his cowboy=  tactics tend to work , but they are also what got him into this situation to begin with .  in a round about way , if he weren=92t known as a man who i= s willing to buy his way out of trouble , his son wouldn=92t have been kidnapped .  as sinise says " you=92re a payer .  you did it once and now you=92re going to do it again . "  one of the nicest elements of this film is that most of the characters actually have personalities .  lindo calls home to talk to his kids , obviously shaken at working this case .  even the kidnappers are real people , arguing about the ultimate fate of sean mullen and feeding him candy bars .  gibson=92s break-down on the balcony of their penthouse apartment is especially effective .  it=92s one of the best filmed representations of a man=92s world falling apart that i=92ve seen .  it=92s not all perfect .  the shoot 'em upending , while emotionally satisfying seems tacked on to be just that rather than to provide a powerful resolution .  as well crafted as the scene is , we=92ve seen it before .  mullen=92s wife ( rene russo ) has several good moments , but occasionally just seems to be there .  while adequate , brawley nolte ( sean ) doesn=92t provide much to the film other than occupying space to build the story around .  but you=92ll ignore these problems as each minute of the movie builds on the previous one .  forget about the large coke , you won=92t want to leave for that five minute break an hour later . 
neg@ well i guess it's that time of the year again .  the one time of the year where movie craftors are exonerated from the need to even * try * writing a script that has more dialogue than explosions .  it's also the best time for the handful of existing bigtime hollywood mr action heroes to dust off their miniscule vocabularies , pull on their black vests and charge onto our screens tersely expirating what they hope will become memorable catchphrases .  in america they call this time " summer " and it happens once every year .  and maybe it's the exposure to all that nasty sun that does it , but in the process normally weak , insipid lines like " consider this a divorce , " " hasta la vista , baby , " and " you're the disease .  i'm the cure " actually do end up being repeated more often then the phrases from my book of biblical proverbs .  this is not entirely a bad thing , of course .  what am i talking about ?  i'm talking about the summer " blockbusters , " the " action thrillers , " the " this-obviously-cost-a-lot-so-you-know- everyone's-going-to-go " explosions , gas threats , flying saucers , and special effects .  in the rash of " my , what big guns you have , but wait !  mine are bigger " movies , there are also the usual boy-meets-fish-and-saves-environment movies ( or whale , whatever ) , and * this * year , the odd crop of " save-the-world-from-aliens-or-environment- threats " offerings .  i'm talking about the three batmans , the speeds , the terminators , etc . this year i'm talking about twister , independence day , the arrival , the rock , mission : impossible , and of course , eraser .  here in singapore , as our local movie critics like to whine , we seem to get the pick of the crop of " my explosion is more real-looking than yours " movies , but nothing else .  mission : impossible opened in our theatres almost as soon as it did in the us .  the same goes for eraser , which is unfortunate for arnold schwarzenegger because coming so soon after what time magazine recently called " mission : unavoidable " ( on account of its worldwide mega-advertising blitz ) , eraser seems like a cheaper , less thoughtful imitation .  that's saying a lot , because mi the movie was already a cheap , thoughtless imitation of its tv originator of the '60s/'70s .  in eraser , arnie is a us federal marshall who relocates trial witnesses whose testimonies place their lives in danger .  he does this by destroying all evidence of their present existence and re-situating them with new identities .  his new case is lee cullen , played by vanessa williams who , unlike all the other scumbags he's ever relocated , is " an actual , real life honest person . "  because she's so good , and has such nice legs , arnold spends the whole movie trying to protect her , and only uses the opening movie sequence to save robert pastorelli from * his * killers .  lee obtains evidence that the high-technology weapons company she works for is secretly selling sophisticated , black-market arms to people with foreign accents and stringy hair .  of course , as the formula goes , her revealing this information will destroy the system as we know it because heck , there are people in high places who will go down with this , because yes , this is the biggest conspiracy in the history of the world ( that is , america ) since watergate .  in protecting lee , arnold is framed by the mentor-turned-evil robert deguerin , nicely played by james caan , and ends up having to prove that he isn't the one killing the programme's witnesses in addition to making sure lee isn't accidentally torpedo-ed to death by the new , green guns his enemies all have .  it's around this time that people in the theatre with me starting humming the mission : impossible theme , because arnie's mission includes breaking into a high-security building to run a disk .  i guess i should tell you more about the particular gun everyone in this movie is so antsy about .  it's an electro-magnetic pulse gun thing which fires aluminium missiles , and which can see through walls .  it has some sort of x-ray vision , so its user can target the victim's heart even from great distances .  despite this , which i figure is a pretty cool feature in a gun ( though i'm certainly no expert ) , however , arnold , whose own heart is targeted a number of times , * never * goes flying 10 feet backwards with a two-foot missile through his chest like all the others who get shot by this gun .  instead he outruns and outsmarts his trackers each time , giving eery and ironic resonance to that terminator line that practically made him famous : " i'll be back . "  like everyone else in the theater , i left the movie feeling that the trailers had duped me , because they made me want to watch this movie voluntarily .  although there is a * lot * of violence in this movie , not to mention mutilation and some bloody tussles with alligators , i recommend this movie to most over-18s who need some therapeutic mindless action to get over the weirdness of fargo or the hangover effect of leaving las vegas .  review's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
pos@ trees lounge is the directoral debut from one of my favorite actors , steve buscemi .  he gave memorable performences in in the soup , fargo , and reservoir dogs .  now he tries his hand at writing , directing and acting all in the same flick .  the movie starts out awfully slow with tommy ( buscemi ) hanging around a local bar the " trees lounge " and him pestering his brother .  it's obvious he a loser .  but as he says " it's better i'm a loser and know i am , then being a loser and not thinking i am . "  well put .  the story starts to take off when his uncle dies , and tommy , not having a job , decides to drive an ice cream truck .  well , the movie starts to pick up with him finding a love interest in a 17 year old girl named debbie ( chloe sevigny ) and . . .  i liked this movie alot even though it did not reach my expectation .  after you've seen him in fargo and reservoir dogs , you know he is capable of a better performence .  i think his brother , michael , did an excellent job for his debut performence .  mr . buscemi is off to a good career as a director ! 
neg@ can you say " dated " ?  you can if you've seen rosemary's baby which , like the exorcist , was a thrilling horror film in its time but seems boring and laughable in the decades that have passed since its original release .   " mystery science theater 3000 " has skewered the bad films of the past , but let me tell you , it could do a number on the " good " ones too .  rosemary's baby stars mia farrow ( from the time she was actually good-looking ) as an innocent housewife and her not-so-innocent husband ( john cassavettes ) , an actor who takes an easy , albeit evil , road to success .  it all seems so harmless in the beginning .  mia and john move into an apartment where several past murders have been committed .   ( there's also a skull in the living room , but it's only for decoration . )  their elderly neighbors pop in for a housewarming .  all's well for about the first hour of this slow-moving film , until mia eats some of the neighbors' chocolate mousse and passes out .  when she comes to , she finds herself in a darkened room with a bunch of people yelling and dancing like savages and a big , evil man raping her -- a foreshadowing of her future life with woody allen .  it seems like a dream and , when she finds herself pregnant , she almost forgets about it .  and everyone's helping with the pregnancy .  the neighbors have some wonderful vitamin potions for her to drink , a good-luck charm for her to wear around her neck , and the name of an obstetrician who's been in the business 66 . 6  years .  meanwhile , mia begins having chronic stomach pains and losing a lot of weight .  before too long she looks just like the lead singer of the cranberries .  that's when you know your health's failing .  the only person in the movie who's the least bit suspicious of all this is an old friend ( maurice evans ) who calls mia up to give her the bad news -- and immediately falls into a coma .  by about the two-hour mark i felt the same way .  rosemary's baby is way too long , and leads up to a payoff that's about as boring and laughable as the rest of the movie .  i guess someone put a spell on this movie . 
pos@ apollo 13 is simply one of the most dramatic film this summer ( apart from swashbuckling braveheart ) .  director ( and former actor ) ron howard ( splash , backdraft , far & away ) , most noted for his dramatic film making , displays again his brilliance in creating drama and suspense in apollo 13 .  being the second largest box office hit in the us this summer ( with more than us$150 million in the states alone ) , this film is his most successful effort yet .  perhaps one of the most appealing feature of this film is the pool of talented actors such as tom hanks ( gump himself ) , kevin bacon ( footloose , tremors , a few good men etc . ) , gary sinise ( forrest gump ) , bill paxton ( aliens , true lies , boxing helena ) and ed harris ( the abyss , just cause ) . .  all of whom gave good performances in their respective roles .  apollo 13 was the second worst accident ever to occur in the history of us spaceflight ( the worst being the challenger accident ) .  jim lovell ( hanks ) , the mission commander , together with his crew , fred haise ( paxton ) and last minute replacement tom swigert ( bacon ) are put to the ultimate test when part of their command module explodes on the third day of the mission , more than three quarters way to the moon .  suspense and drama ensue as the three men are left in space with their spaceship out of control and the problem of surviving the journey home . . .  if they ever reach it .  ed harris and gary sinise who play , respectively , the man in charge of the entire mission control and the astronaut who was supposed to fly but was diagnosed with measles , both delve into their roles superbly .  audiences are shown the chaotic and worrisome state of the entire ground control crew , as they frantically attempt to come up with ideas on how to save the astronauts from hurtling into space .  also , there are quite a number of real news footages which were broadcast during the accident which took the entire us nation into 5 days of drama in 1970 .  the special effects by digital domain are up to standard and the music suits the suspense and drama very well , thanks to film-music maestro james horner .  watch out for the launching sequence , it is simply one of the most breathtaking scenes of the film .  a bad point though : apollo 13 features much technical jargon and many physics concepts in its script .  those who consider themselves `scientifically illiterate' might have a slight problem understanding what caused this and what caused that during the course of the show .  this is however , just a minor point , just forget all those technical bullshit and immerse yourselves into the drama and suspense throughout the film .  you should enjoy it . 
neg@ maybe this mission should have been scrubbed  mission to mars  a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman  there's a world of difference between artists and technicians .  the artist has a vision to create something new .  he may not do it well , it might be sloppy , but it's something you've never seen before .  a good technician can make it look good , but without direction from his own inner artist or someone else , it's going to be just a xerox .  obviously successful films need both skills .  brian de palma is a masterful technician .  he's spent his career copying others , most notably hitchcock .  he usually knows exactly what to do to make a scene work , but only because he has learned it by rote .  aside from rare flashes of originality , his films are often soul-dead .  in de palma's latest , he turns his attention to stanley kubrick .  to tell the truth , i enjoyed portions of this movie , but i liked it a lot better over 30 years ago when it was called " 2001 " .  i enjoyed it even more when it was titled " close encounters " .  nasa has set its sights for mars .  when the first crew meets with disaster , a rescue mission is sent to the red planet .  they don't do so well either , but eventually meet up the lone surviving astronaut-gone-rasta and solve the mysteries of the universe .  and it's all so boring .  there are so many scenes that just don't work , it's difficult to begin .  when the first crew is a few feet away from a raging massive upside-down martian tornado ( which looks remarkably like a sandworm from " dune " ) destroying everything in its path , they just hang out watching .  error .  the most interesting character ( and that's not saying much ) is killed off .  error .  the alien is laughable .  error .  the rest of the characters are the dullest people imaginable .  error .  there's some nice eyecandy .  the face on mars , which turns out to be a giant metal thai buddha head , looks cool .  a three-dimensional holographic planetarium is more fun to watch than anything at disney world .  maneuvering in space suits outside the ship seems realistic .  but there's so much more that feels as if we've been there before .  from " 2001 " , there's the rotating space station , the blinding white room .  >from " close encounters " , they solve a sound puzzle and play it to the aliens .  the list goes on .  the actors are mostly mobile wooden statues .  even gary sinise and tim robbins can't muster enough emotion to convince us they are breathing .  no one seems to care about anything that happens .  you won't either .  the absolutely worst sin is the blatant product placement as dr . pepper , with a 20 foot tall logo , saves the day .  they should save the commercials for those insipid bits before the film . 
pos@ my fellow americans is a movie that at first glance looks to have little substance ( or a movie that we've all seen a million times ) , two lifetime rivals thrown together and then the fun begins .  this is exactly what happened in this movie , but fortunately , they managed to do it in an interesting and funny way .  the movie starts with a quick ( and i do mean quick ) glance of two presidents russell kramer ( jack lemmon ) and matt douglas ( james garner ) .  william haney ( dan aykroyd ) and ted matthews ( john heard ) are the new president and vice president .  there is a scandal that arises involving a kickback from a contractor and haney is positive that he buried that years ago .  he finds a scapegoat in kramer and now everyone wants kramer and douglas dead .  this movie was exceptional for many reasons .  one being that they found people ( lemmon and garner ) that have good chemisty together .  they worked very well as a unit and they mirrored each other perfectly , one being a ladies man and one being the old man ( i'll let you fiqure which is which ) .  also , they found people that know their parts as govenment officials well .  it seemed to me that garner played almost exactly the same role that he played in the distinquished gentleman ( except then he was a congressman ) .  experience counts for a lot ! ! 
neg@ note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers .  be forewarned .  i was incredulous when i first heard that mgm was planning a sequel to their 1995 science-fiction flick species .  squandering an intriguing premise , the original film turned out to be a dreadful mess , widely disliked by both audiences and critics alike -- and nonetheless still somehow succeeded in becoming a financial success , raking in over $60 million domestic during the competitive summer season despite a distinct lack of star power in its cast ( ben kingsley's a splendid actor , but a marquee name he ain't ) .  miraculously dodging the bullet with the first film , i doubted that they'd dare tempt fate and go for another round .  so here comes species ii , with a new creative team ( director peter medak and screenwriter chris brancato step in for roger donaldson and dennis feldman , respectively ) that fails to improve the series one iota -- like its predecessor , species ii fails to capitalize on a potentially promising kernel and instead runs the gamut from ridiculously silly to unmitigatedly stupid .  the film follows the exploits of a young man , patrick ross ( justin lazard ) , whose sole focus is on cruising along the streets in order to pick up women , loitering in strip clubs , and generally trying to bed as many different ladies as he possibly can .  in other words , patrick is like a lot of guys ; these activities could describe the everyday routines of a huge percentage of men his age , but there's a catch -- he's an astronaut who recently returned from a seemingly successful mission to mars , and who's now infected with alien dna .  patrick's overriding compulsion : to mate and sire countless numbers of gooey little alien offspring .  and when he becomes aware of eve ( natasha henstridge ) , a half-human , half-alien clone of the monster from the first film being studied in a government lab , patrick's primary focus turns to her -- " if these two were to mate , the resulting pure strain of offspring would be unstoppable " warns dr . laura baker ( marg helgenberger , gamely reprising her role ) with admirable conviction .  species ii opens with the mars mission , and the space scenes are remarkably unconvincing and hokey-looking , even splicing back to dated , grainy footage of actual spacecraft activities -- they really skimped on production values this time around .  however , this all looks positively inspired when compared to the first appearance of the evil alien goo which ultimately infests patrick ; watching as it slinks around the command module of the spaceship , any question as to whether or not this is a cheesy b-movie is quickly answered .  mr . brancato's original screenplay is filled with outrageous lines which often leaves the audience in stitches .  like the first film ( and perhaps in homage to it ) , there's a real penchant for dialogue which underlines the obvious .  last time around featured the hootworthy line uttered by forest whitaker's psychic empath character upon entering a bloodsoaked room -- " something bad happened here . "  this time , laura gets to stand over a fresh , shredded corpse with its entails ripped out and mutter " this is awful . "  and she's not even empathic !  and when a psychotically horny patrick accosts a supermarket shopper and drags her kicking and screaming behind the building in a woefully-paced suspense sequence , eve , who's telepathically linked to her alien/human-hybrid counterpart ( whatever ) , helpfully tells our alien-hunting protagonists , " he's going to rape her . "  while species ii is often unintentionally hilarious , at least it occasionally demonstrates a sense of humour of its own .  there's an amusing , tongue-in-cheek bit of product placement ( which doesn't really make much sense , but i appreciated the sentiment ) , as well as some supermarket-related hijinx ( " he's in aisle 1 ! "  informs eve ) .  if the film maintained this sort of light-hearted tone , it would have been much more charming and enjoyable to watch , but , to its detriment , it instead takes its silly plot far too seriously and barrels along to a bloody , effects-ladened anticlimactic conclusion .  much of the film fails to make a whole lot of sense , and there are such gaping plot holes that it's terribly difficult to contain any suspension of disbelief .  the implausibilities are endless : what about the toxic bomb in eve's brain ?  why are the guards armed with guns when they already know firearms are ineffectual ?  my favourite was the slow-motion sequence in the film where eve , sporting superhuman strength , is shown tossing aside guards who are attempting to contain her with what look like body blocks .  this is the sort of movie which leaves you holding your head in amazed disbelief , incredulous that it's being foisted upon the public .  returning headlines michael madsen ( who reprises tough guy press lennox ) and ms . helgenberger do what they can with this goofy screenplay , but there's realistically only so much one can do with this script as a basis .  mykelti williamson ( portraying astronaut dennis gamble ) churns out an all-too-familiar spin on a generic brash-mouthed character , and fine character actors george dzundza ( playing colonel burgess and looking ridiculous in the process ) and james cromwell ( patrick's neglectful father , senator ross ) are utterly wasted in the film .  mr . lazard gives his character an appropriately shifty-eyed look , while returning vixen ms . henstridge is actually given the opportunity to act in one scene ( and acquits herself nicely ) , but is mostly relegated to reprising her familiar role of parading about in skimpy clothing ( or none at all ) .  ms . henstridge recently commented on how some female audiences have expressed appreciation for her character in the first entry of the species series , claiming that " she's so empowered . "  a lethal half-alien in heat who dispatches of her sexual partners in grotesque fashion -- now * that's * what i call empowerment . 
pos@ bruce willis is a type-casted actor .  in die hard , he played john mcclaine , a rough and tough chicago cop who gets caught in the wrong place at the wrong time .  again , in pulp fiction , as butch coolidge , an over-the-hill boxer , he steps on the wrong guys toes .  in luc besson's the fifth element , willis plays korben dallas , a new york cabby who takes in the wrong passenger at the worst possible time .  a stylish science fiction epic , the fifth element's complex plot begins right away , in the deserts of egypt ( think stargate ) in 1914 .  an enormous spacecraft lands above a pyramid where the " 5 elements " are stored and takes them away , vowing to return them when the evil comes back .  cut to present day , which is our future .  the year is 2023 , and new york is the city .  the only basic differences between besson's futuristic depiction and the real life new york is that the smog is thicker , the buildings are higher , and the traffic floats !  anyway , the " evil " comes back as a ball of fire to wreak havoc on the fair citizens of the earth , so back come the tortoise-like aliens to return the " 5 elements " to earth , in order to defend themselves against the " evil . "  in the process , however , the ship is intercepted by 2 fighter pods and is destroyed before landing .  when officials arrive at the site , all that remains is a hand .  what can you do with a hand ?  hey , its the 21st century here-dna reconstruction !  this hand turns out to belong to a beautiful , but mysterious woman named leeloo ( milla jovovich , dazed and confused ) .  she escapes and , attempting to escape the police by swan diving off of an enormous skyscraper and crashing through the roof of korben's floating cab .  it's love at first site , as korben and leeloo elude the lazy-as-always cops .  when leeloo begins mumbling about a cornelius ( ian holm , night falls on manhattan ) , korben searches the " yellow pages " and delivers her to the door of the good reverend , the only man who knows of her background and duties .  now , korben , leeloo , and cornelius must journey to a foreign planet to board a cruise ship ( special effects were spectacular here ) to find the remaining four elements .  it is here , where they discover that they have been followed by the evil jean-baptiste emmanuel zorg ( gary oldman , murder in the first ) .  he , too , wants possession of the elements , as do a group of pig-like warriors ( think the gamorreans in return of the jedi ) .  in a spectacular ending , with time running out , leeloo is faced with a problem-why should she save a people who live to destroy each other ?  the question is a good one , and one that could be pondered .  but enough of that .  when korben points out his love for her , leeloo is inclined to become the " 5th element " and save the world from total destruction .  the fifth element features good performances by willis and holm , an excellent portrayal of a comedic villain ( who reminded me a lot of jack nicholson's the joker in batman ) by one of the masters of villainy , oldman , and a heartfelt offering by relative newcomer jovovich .  the supporting cast , which includes brion james ( tango & cash ) , tim " tiny " lester ( no holds barred ) , luke perry ( buffy the vampire slayer ) , and chris tucker ( friday ) , added a comedic effect to the film .  although besson's the fifth element can be criticized for the outlandish use of cliches , it is a solid motion picture with a definite point .  some other directors ( like anaconda's luis llosa ) should take a lesson from this guy-using ideas from epic motion pictures the right way .  ideas from star wars and stargate were utilized for the improvement of this film .  sci-fi fan or not , any movie-lover should see this wonderfully stylish motion picture .   , 
neg@ running time approximately 1hr 40mins  reviewed by jack choo  rating :  the movie starts with a rather se7en-ish opening sequence , rather cool and sets the mood for things to come .  the story propels the audience into a neo-reality ; somewhat very close to conscious reality but laced with weird tinges of blue and red .  existenz is actually the name of a new virtual-reality game .  supposedly , vr games are highly popular as is considered a legal-drug in this neo-reality .   * * * * ( leigh ) is the ultimate game creator and introduces her ultimate game-experience in the form of existenz .  players are required to have bio-ports embedded in their spine , which plugs to a game-pod in order to enjoy the immersive experience .  during a secretive beta-testing-cum-teaser meeting for this new game , an assassination attempt on * * * life occurs and she runs off with fellow bodyguard * * * ( law ) .   * * * is more of a realists than anything else , afraid that he'll lose reality if he begin to play these games but * * * requires his help to immerse together with her into existenz to check if the program is still functioning properly after the assassination attempt .  as they soon discover , they are transported between realities within existenz uncovering more than they initially expected .  existenz has all the cronenberg-gore that is expected of him .  even so , this film is no-where near his cult classics such as videodrome or scanners .  not even half as suspenseful as the commercially successful the fly .  existenz can probably be looked upon as his 90's version of videodrome , even so , it is a poor follow-up .  while in most of his famed films , his penchant for gore always hit the right note with theme of the film and plot .  in existenz , the gory sequences are no more attached to spirit of the film and seem to be an act of over-indulgence than anything else .  jennifer jason leigh and jude law , both commendable actors , looked aloof and miss-directed throughout the entire film .  the scripting and acting barely pulls the film out of the b-grade category .  it was obvious that cronenberg worked on a really tight-budget and it seems that he handled that pretty well in the production design and values created for this film ( the opening sequence , though , probably formed a considerable portion of the budget ! )  which is actually quite good .  existenz is too predictable and cliched in these times .  10 years ago , it would have been another classic for cronenberg .  cronenberg fans however , ( those people who enjoy seeing friends getting queasy over mutilation on film ) should not give this film a miss as some form of appreciation can still be offered by you . 
pos@ contact is a nobly intentioned but ultimately unsatisfying adaptation of carl sagan's only novel .  it details the circumstances surrounding the first clear sign of intelligent life in outer space and their effects on the life of a young and idealistic radio astronomer named ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) .  we first meet ellie at a giant radio telescope in puerto rico , where she is part of the seti ( search for extraterrestrial intelligence ) project .  her research is quickly killed , however , by her highly political david drumlin ( tom skerrit ) , who disdains " pure research " in favor of science with " commercial applications .  she goes in search of private funding and is turned down at every step until she pitches her project to a corporation run by the mysterious s . r .  hadden ( john hurt ) .  then , with that money just about to finally dry up , ellie is sitting out in the desert near the very large array in new mexico when she hears over her headphones a very powerful pulsing radio signal .  in the movie's most exciting and believable sequence , ellie and her coworkers determine that the signal has to be coming from the star vega .  at first the signal appears to be just sequences of prime numbers , then it turns out to be a tv signal of the berlin olympics bounced back to earth from 50 years before .  further decoding , with hadden's help , reveals another layer to message , containing detailed plans for a massive and complex machine .  it appears that the machine is a transport that will allow one person to travel to the aliens' home world .  of course , the big question becomes " who gets to ride it ? "   ( right after " who's gonna pay for this thing ? " ) .  to boil it down , ellie gets denied the seat in the machine because she bluntly acknowledges her atheism , while drumlin gets to go because he rather insincerely professes his deep religious faith .  drumlin is killed and the machine destroyed when religious fanatics bomb the launch platform ( apparently to keep " godless science " from talking to god , or something like that ) .  then hadden reappears with startling news .  he has secretly constructed a second machine off the coast of japan and has reserved the ride for ellie , in whom he has taken a rather paternal interest .  ellie boards the machine and is transported through some kind of wormhole to a dream-like place that looks a lot like waikiki beach before they built the hotels , where she meets the aliens who take the form of her late father ( david morse ) .  when she returns home , no one believes her .  she was not even gone for one second , they say , even though she remembers being gone for 18 hours .  her story is officially discredited , although believed by a large segment of the public ( who don't even have to know that her computer records of the trip contain nothing but static .   .   .  eighteen hours worth of static ) .  there is a lot to like about contact so i will highlight those points first .  ellie arroway is a well-rounded character portrayed by one of the best actresses currently working .  neither the character nor the performance has the same depth as clarice starling in silence of the lambs , but that's a tough standard to meet .  ellie is interesting in that she is woman defined by a strange array of father figures .  her real father is an idealized movie dad who does nothing in the film but love his daughter unconditionally .  drumlin comes across as a distant stepfather to whom ellie is like an irritating teenager who wants to use his toys to get into trouble .  hadden obviously has affection for ellie , but in the end he seems to see her as his creation , nothing more than his favorite piece on the chess board .  even palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) , ellie's love interest , takes a paternalistic interest in ellie , seeing her as a misguided person who needs protection from her own impulses .  the film is technically impressive , especially in the scenes where the message is first received and during the destruction of the first machine .  the part of the film dealing with the message has the best presentation of real science in a film since the andromeda strain .  the film falls apart when dealing with its central theme , the dichotomy between science and religion .  this is a very real debate but contact boils it down to a simplistic level that never really touches on the actual issues involved .  the film presents science pretty well ( until the end ) so the real problem stems from it presentation of religious faith .  religious people are presented as shallow caricatures .  rob lowe plays a ralph reed clone named richard rank ( very subtle , guys ) , the voice of the religious right .  another religious figure is the fanatic who blows up the first machine ( jake busey ) .  the only really fleshed-out religious person , palmer joss , is supposed to be a minister of some sort , but his actual faith is left pretty vague .  i can't even say for certain that he was supposed to be a christian .  all we know is that he dropped out of the seminary and obviously has no qualms about pre-marital sex .  the film drops the science ball at the very end , when ellie appears to assert that there are some things even scientists must take on faith .  in a day and age when the theory of evolution is denounced by the religion right as an atheist " religious " doctrine , this is exactly the wrong message to send .  in a movie dealing with issues of science and faith , the last thing you want your scientist character to do is abandon the principle of scientific skepticism .  what ellie should have said was , " you shouldn't believe me .  not without evidence , and i don't have the evidence .  i know what happened but you shouldn't take my word alone . "  that is the voice of science speaking .  the character of david drumlin is another problem with this film .  his attitudes toward pure research project seem out of place for a person in his position .  also , his profession of " faith " before the selection committee is so nakedly and transparently insincere that only a pack of idiots should have fallen for it .  the last big problem is with the use of real personalities in various roles .  the media figures , such as bernard shaw and jay leno aren't so bad , in as much as their participation was voluntary .  the use of bill clinton , however , should give anyone pause .  first of all , lifting the image of a sitting head of state and inserting him into a fictional story line , thus using his words outside of the context in which they were spoken , is just plain creepy .  also , using the real president places this film between 1993 and 2001 , forever dating it .  people watching this film in the future will say , " hey , this never took place during clinton's term . "  this bit of unreality will jar people out of their suspension of disbelief .  also , the level of technology portrayed in the film is too advanced to take place before the first decade of the next century .  better to have had a fictitious president played by an actor or no president at all .  the film does raise an interesting question , although it never develops it in a satisfying way .  if we were picking an emissary to send to an alien culture , would an atheist be automatically disqualified just because ninety percent of the population of the world professes a belief in god , or at least some form of supernatural creator ?  personally , i would hope not , since religion is basically an opinion , a form of ideology .  i would not want any form of ideological test for such an import task . 
neg@  " it was not scary . "  these are the first words that came to mind after it was over .  when a movie is called _vampires_ , " not scary " aren't words that should be associated with it .  but that wasn't my only gripe .  john carpenter is a name associated with cutting-edge cinema , as in the intense scares of _halloween_ , _the thing_ and _the prince of darkness_ , or the offbeat action of _they live_ and _escape from new york_ .  unfortunately , the only thing that is cutting edge about _vampires_ is the level of boredom the movie is able to reach .  with an anemic plot and not-quite-kosher special effects , _john carpenter's vampires_ has barely enough substance to slake the thirst of even the least discerning genre fan .  the film is at first concerned with a group of roaming vampire slayers , led by james woods , of all people .  like some sort of holy a-team ( they even have their own souped-up van ) , the bunch invade and wipe out a nest of vampires in a new mexico shack .  their method is amusingly innovative : the blood-suckers are reeled out with harpoons so they can flare up in the sun like matchsticks .  to commemorate their victory , the loutish band decorates a motel room with hookers and parties the night away .  their celebration is short-lived , however , as a master vampire named valek ambushes and single-handedly destroys most of the team .  woods' jack crow and buddy montoya ( daniel baldwin ) escape with their lives , along with a woman named katrina ( sheryl lee ) .  although the woman has been bitten , montoya and crow decide to keep katrina for her psychic link to the master vampire .  the rest of the movie is concerned with the boys' hunt for valek ( thomas ian griffith ) , a freaky marilyn manson-type who's on a mission that dates back 600 years .  along the way they pick up a priest named guiteau ( tim guinee ) , a character who serves pretty much the same purpose as the jittery cpl .  upham in _saving private ryan_ .  some stuff happens in the middle of the movie , but i can't remember most of it , because i often found a twitching hair in the corner of the frame more interesting than what was happening on screen .  _vampires_ finally starts to pick up about 90 minutes into the mix , as crow , guiteau , and montoya assault an abandoned prison-turned vampire nest .  only then does the film begin to even resemble a carpenter flick .  but it's too little too late .  we get the inevitable final confrontation , but it seems tacked on and rather anti-climactic ( come on , we're dealing with _the_ master vampire here ! )  interestingly , last summer's vampire actioner _blade_ was derived from a comic book , and _vampires_ from a novel , yet the latter seems more steeped in campy cheesiness than the former , a more deliberate superhero flick .  woods' jack crow spouts glib off-the-cuff one-liners and strolls away from exploding buildings with that oh-so-cool stride .  and his motive for killing vampires ?  take a wild guess .   ( hint : a ______ killed his _____ when he was just a _____ . )  at least _blade_ had decent action and slick stylishness .  _vampires_ lacks even cheap thrills to mask its gossamer-thin plot .  to make up for this , the movie resorts to other " shocks , " such as its generally condescending attitude towards women ( crow slaps them around for the fun of it ) and an overplayed contempt for religion ( crow teases guiteau incessantly about whether his vow of celibacy has made him prone to " getting woodies . " )  it can be argued that maybe i wanted too much from this movie .  if not scary and gory , i wanted tense , relentless , and exhausting .  _john carpenter's vampires_ is none of these .  i can only recommended it for the hardcore carpenter fan .  for the rest of you looking for a good scare , beware : _vampires_ is a film with no teeth . 
pos@ written by john grisham and robert altman ( as al hayes )  directed by robert altman  some time ago , a young director was given the opportunity to direct the screen version of a popular novel .  the novel was a summer smash , topping best-seller lists across the country and already drawing speculation as to which popular actors of the day might play the leads .  the only problem : the novel wasn't very good .  it was far more pulp than pulitzer .  but the director realized that , no matter how pedestrian the prose , this book really grabbed people - that the author , while not a great writer , was a fantastic storyteller .  so he took on the project , convinced he could make something happen on screen .  the director ?  francis ford coppola .  the book , of course , was mario puzo's the godfather .  the rest , as they say in showbiz , was history .  by bringing up the godfather , i don't mean to suggest that robert altman's the gingerbread man is destined for that level of greatness .  but the parallel does suggest that it is possible to create great cinema from questionable source material .  can you get any more questionable than john grisham ?  depends on whom you ask .  but there's no question that grisham's work grabs people .  like puzo , grisham is a better storyteller than a writer - unlike fellow hack michael crichton , who is a good idea man but who can't tell a well-constructed story from a can of spam .  so something in grisham's unpublished story of a cocky savannah lawyer who gets involved in a deadly family squabble drew the attention of robert altman , who at 73 years old remains one of america's greatest living filmmakers .  the result is a gripping thriller that , while falling short of classic cinema , deserves its place in the altman canon .  >from its opening shot to the closing credits , the gingerbread man is permeated with a sense of dread , with a fear of the natural destructive forces of the universe .  this terrific sense of mood is a classic altman touch .  witness said opening shot : we see an aerial view of coastal georgia with its writhing , undulating landscape while the soundtrack grumbles ominously in our ear .  we roll over the hills into the town of savannah , then zoom in close on a red sports car speeding over a bridge while its driver chatters oblivious on his cell phone .  right away we know that the driver of that car is in for a few surprises .  pay attention , boys and girls - this shot was not conceived by john grisham , but by altman .  this is what a great director can do for questionable source material .  the sports car belongs to rick magruder ( kenneth branagh ) , the aforementioned hotshot attorney who specializes in police brutality cases .  magruder has just won a high profile case and celebrates that night with a catered party at his office .  outside after the party he meets one of the waitresses , mallory doss ( embeth davidzt ) , just as she realizes her car has been stolen .  driven by southern chivalry , a driving rainstorm and his unspoken attraction to the fragile waitress , magruder offers her a ride home .  there he learns more about mallory's life than he bargained for .  her car was stolen by her schizophrenic father dixon ( robert duvall ) , a ted kyzynski-style whacko who has been stalking and terrorizing his own daughter .  magruder , perhaps influenced by mallory's decision to strip off her wet clothes in front of him , is sympathetic to her plight , and offers to help her get her father committed - right after he sleeps with her , of course .  this simple offer of help leads magruder down a dangerous path with a black end .  he succeeds in having dixon incarcerated in a mental hospital , and for a moment all appears well .  but then dixon's crack team of homeless commandos bust him out of the lockup - and suddenly magruder finds himself , mallory and his own children in danger .  the cops won't lift a finger to help a liberal attorney .  his only allies are his faithful assistant lois ( daryl hannah ) and his bumbling private-eye sidekick clyde ( robert downey jr ) .  if this predicament wasn't bad enough , hurricane geraldo is bearing down on savannah and throwing the world into chaos .  altman may provide the atmosphere , but branagh's performance holds the gingerbread man together .  an accomplished actor when he isn't directing himself in vanity productions , branagh does a fine job of making rick a sympathetic hero while casting doubt upon his motives .  is his offer of help to mallory an act of kindness , or of egotism ?  magruder is so sure of his place in the world that he never considers that he has bitten off more than he can chew until he has to swallow it - and by then it's too late .  as the plot unfolds , magruder learns that none of us are as secure as we think we are .  and life is never so bad that it can't get worse .  if you're familiar with altman's work , you'll recognize several of his signature techniques .  characters are not introduced in establishing shots , but rather are allowed to wander in the background of scenes until their importance becomes apparent .  crucial scenes are shot from the outside through windows , making the audience unwitting voyeurs of the action .  dialog overlaps and the actors seem to slip naturally into an improvisational style .  and of course there's my favorite altman technique - the obligatory nude actress shot .  thanks to altman , here are some of the actresses i've had the pleasure of seeing naked : sally kellerman , julianne moore , madeline stowe , even frances mcdormand .  and now i can add embeth davidtz , who looks quite healthy in the altogether .  the naked actress shot has become as ubiquitous to the altman film as the director cameo was to the hitchcock film .  is it old-school sexism , or a clever in-joke ?  you be the judge .  but back to the picture at hand .  in the hands of a mere mortal , the gingerbread man would have been a routine thriller , no better or worse than the countless others we've all endured .  in the hands of a master like altman , it becomes an exercise in existential doom , in its own way far more successful than scorsese's cape fear remake , which tried for the same result .  what may prevent it from enduring with altman's greatest work is a weak third act - in fact , there really is no third act in grisham's story , so it appears that altman had to throw in the hurricane just to jazz things up .  but there are true moments of riveting suspense , and great performances by branagh , davidzt and downey jr - more than enough to see you through .  that polygram so hated this picture that they tried to steal final cut from altman , and then buried the marketing campaign when he won it back , should tell you how utterly clueless of quality most studios are .  they probably wanted it to look more like a time to kill .  and that , my friends , should make you very afraid . 
neg@ silly performances and some huge gaps in logic mar an otherwise interesting tale of an eclectic group of people stranded at " the last stop cafe and motel " due to heavy snowfall .  one of the stranded is a colorado state highway patrolman ( adam beach ) who discovers a murder scene and a bag full of cash from a recent bank robbery .  someone amongst the group of strangers is a bank robber and a murderer , but is it the same person or are there multiple criminals ?  adam beach unfortunately was the wrong choice for the lead in this film .  he doesn't play the role with enough seriousness to be believable or enough goofiness for it to be funny .  his performance is stuck somewhere in the middle , and this film really needed it to be on one side or the other .  rose mcgowan is cold and unpleasant to the eye as always , and jurgen prochnow . . .  what on earth is he doing in this ?  best performance comes from william s . taylor as a cheesy ( yet still somehow cool and confident ) wayne newton drifter type .  the last stop is available on dvd from sterling home entertainment .  as usual with sterling , they've filled out this dvd with extra features .  the disc contains the film in its original aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , a choice of 2 . 0 dolby surround sound or 5 . 1 dolby digital surround sound , a full length audio commentary track with director mark malone , interviews with the cast and crew , the original trailer , and the usual cast and crew biographies .  the film itself might not be the greatest , but sterling's effort of adding decent extra features while keeping the price affordable ( suggested retail of $19 . 95 ) makes this dvd worth the money .  [r] 
pos@ very few people would be unaware of beavis & butt-head ( both created and narrated by mike judge ) .  they are the two animated mtv characters who have the most annoying laughter know to human kind .  you may have seen them on their television program , as they snigger and make lude remarks about women , anything related to sex , and the music film clips that they watch .  in beavis & butt-head do america the pair finally make their big screen debut , to the delight of some , and the deplore of others .  beavis & butt-head ( yes , those are their real names ) , are two very ugly teenagers with extremely warped minds driven by raging hormones .  they live their lives in front of the television .  the worst possible event occurs to the pair when their television is stolen .  this happens as they sleep , and when they awake it takes them a few minutes just to decipher that the television has gone .  beavis even tries to use the remote , though there is no television there .  the two spot a van outside and two sinister looking men carrying a television .  even at this point they have no idea what has happened .  they look around , seeing all the evidence , but are completely oblivious to the fact that these men have just stolen their television .  before the movie i knew that they were stupid , but i didn't realise just how stupid .  this is typical of their behaviour throughout the film .  eventually they realise that their television has been stolen , so they leave their sofa to go search for a television .  luck would have it that they stumble into a hotel room ( looking for a television ) where a man is awaiting two guys whose task it is to kill his wife .  this man , thinking that beavis & butt-head are the assigned killers , tells them that they can have $10 , 000 if they " do his wife " .  beavis & butt-head , being the ignorant fools that they are , think that he is offering them $10 , 000 dollars to have sex with his good looking wife .  they are taken to the airport where they fly to las vegas to " do her " .  to them , this is the best day of their lives .  not only are they going to lose their virginity ( one of their lifelong aims ) , but most importantly , they will have enough money to buy a big screen tv .  inevitably they become caught up in a huge crime , and unbeknown to them , are tracked across the country by the fbi .  oddly enough , it is their complete stupidity that spares them from being caught , as a result the fbi is convinced they are criminal masterminds .  they end up travelling right across america , visiting places such as the hoover dam and washington dc .  the irony is that although they visit so many grand and spectacular locations , their one time out in the big world away from their television , they are completely oblivious to it .  at old faithful they are far more fascinated with the infra-red operated urinals than with the geyser itself .  beavis & butt-head essentially have the journey of their lives .  they even get to meet the president .  but all they care about is getting their television back , and losing their virginity .  this is one of the many reasons that the film is so funny - it's unbelievable just how stupid they are , and how they can be so oblivious to everything around them .  the humour is certainly crude , but then beavis & butt-head are just that ; crude , lude and rude .  in the end you can't help but feel sorry for them , a pair of anti-social couch potatoes whose life is television .  in this respect , and also with regard to authority ( such as the fbi ) mike judge is quite critical of amercian society .  if you are easily offended , or find this pair particularly annoying , steer clear .  otherwise , it should keep you laughing the whole way through .  one note of warning : don't take friends who like to imitate beavis & butt-head . . . . . you'll  never hear the end of it ! 
neg@ there are some pretty impressive stars in lost in space - it's just that none of them happen to be actors .  the stars i'm referring to are the computer generated ones that make up the movie's " outer space " ; the stars that the less impressive actors hurtle thru as they try to find their way home .  yes , in terms of acting , the star power is .   .   .  well , more like a falling star .  kinda pretty , short-lived , and pretty much dead .  lost in space , as if you really didn't know , is based on the 60's sci-fi television series of the same name .  it's the year 2058 , and earth's precious resources are quickly being usurped by the needs of its massive population .  john robinson ( william hurt ) is the scientist leading a mission program to colonize a foreign planet .  earth's entire existance is contingent upon a successful mission , but nobody , whether it be john's family or hired battle pilot don west ( matt leblanc ) , seems too enthusiastic about leaving their home planet for several years .  john's family consists of his wife maureen ( mimi rogers ) , his atypical teenage daughter penny ( lacey chabert ) , his ingenious son will ( jack johnson ) , and his beautiful scientist daughter judy ( heather graham ) .  despite everyone's reluctance , the jupiter 2 spacecraft abandons planet earth and makes its way into the vast eternity of space .  unknown to anyone but the audience , there is an evil doctor stowaway determined to sabotage the entire mission .  dr . smith ( gary oldman ) has been hired by a group of rebel conspirators to turn the expedition sour , and dr . smith has re-programmed a talking robot to " destroy robinson family " !  when everything that could go wrong does go wrong for both sides , the spaceship is warped to an unknown destination , and now the premise of being lost in space is complete .  as for the audience , you will likely be lost in boredom by this point , wondering if the plot , like the jupiter 2 , will ever get off the ground .  it's hard to tell who deserves the most blame - the incredibly bland and corny characters or the horrifically lame script ?  chabert is basically the only one to overdo it , sounding like a whiny munchkin on helium .  if you , like me , were convinced by commercials that her voice was altered for some sort of plot twist where her body would be taken over by aliens , you're wrong !  that's just her normal voice !  in yet another example of a " friend " faltering on the big screen , leblanc is so incredibly dull and yet so obviously trying so hard to be so incredibly charming ( make sense ? ) , it makes you want to shove his ass out the escape pod corridor without an escape pod .  graham is a babe - thank goodness there was something for me to think about during this film .  hurt , the black hole of excitement , sucks up any energy that might have been left .  if hurt were available in tablet form , he would be a prescription strength sleeping pill .  johnson isn't dull , he's just lame as the young know it all who winds up saving everybody's ass all the time .  want an example of how cool this kid can be ?  how about when he convinces the robot to think with its heart and reconsider killing the family ?  hey , don't laugh - the thing actually listened to the mr . rogers-would-be-proud sentiment .  but alas , if you thought a character couldn't be much worse , there was rogers as the epitome of generic ( or , mother as she was known ) .  why hire an actress ?  they could've had a white cardboard cutout with the word mom printed on it .  now that would've had some pizzazz !  lost in space luckily doesn't suffer in every single category that it could have .  the special effects are crisp , clear , and at least mildly captivating , unlike any of the presences onscreen save it be oldman , who plays his evil character with a great deal of fun and finesse .  unfortunately , oldman is locked away for most of the film , giving us nothing but ample mocking opportunities to enjoy .  while the special effects are pleasing to the eye , they are nothing you couldn't find in most modern sci-fi films .  contact , for example , far exceeds this film in terms of imagery and imagination .  lost in space just has too many shortcomings to ever be considered a work of cinematic art , with numerous contradictions ( the time travel aspect was horribly flawed ! ) , wooden and corny acting , worse dialogue , and an ending so disappointing , you'd be happier to have seen the entire robinson family get blown to smithereens .  then again , with an ending like this film has , it's obvious a sequel is already being considered .  what an awful note to end on , knowing there could be more of this in a year or two .  the attempt to be family oriented is commendable , but lost in space is lost with the illusion that special effects and the nostalgia of a classic tv series being revisited is enough to satisfy all age groups .  well , danger potential movie goers !  danger !  this movie crash lands without ever breaking thru the atmosphere of mediocrity . 
pos@ finding the courage to face life full-on is a difficult task .  summoning up the audacity to fall in love is a harder job .  if you're a total jerk like melvin udall is , the odds are even more against you .  melvin ( jack nicholson ) is a successful romance author who is just the opposite of what you would expect someone in that profession to be .  a solitary man hidden away in his new york apartment with no human interaction and not even a hint of ever having been in a passionate relationship , he avoids the outside world as much as possible .  his obsessive-compulsive disorder rules his life as he uses several different bars of soap to wash his hands and refuses to step on a crack on the sidewalk .   ( there's a great scene when he has to cross a floor made of mosaic tiles -- _very_small_ mosaic tiles . )  melvin has some great lines .  when his publisher's receptionist asks him how he writes women so well in his books , he responds " i think of men and i take away reason and accountability . "  don't get him wrong , he's not merely a misogynist .  setting his sights higher than that , he's also a homophobe , racist , anti-semite , xenophobe , animal-hater and intensely dislikes people who talk in metaphors .  when we first meet him , he's busy dumping a neighbor's dog down the garbage chute .  he's an equal opportunity bigot .  he does venture outside his apartment every day to eat breakfast at a local cafe .  melvin is such a grouchy curmudgeon that waitress carol connelly ( helen hunt ) is the only one willing to wait on him .  and she's none too happy about it .  when carol doesn't show up for work , melvin's routine is shot and he's determined to do something about it .  tracking down her address , he shows up at her place begging her to come back to work so that he can eat breakfast .  the fact that she's a poor single mother caring for a chronically ill son doesn't appear to phase him , he wants his food .  much more upsetting is that his gay artist neighbor simon bishop ( greg kinnear ) is brutally attacked during a robbery .  this doesn't upset melvin much ( " don't worry , you'll be back on your knees in no time " ) but when he is bullied into taking care of simon's dog , his life is turned topsy-turvey .  melvin is sequestered because he's afraid of what's out there on the other side of his apartment door .  he has to make sure it's ritualistically locked three times to keep the world on its proper side .  when he brings the dog home he reluctantly grows fond of it , talking to it and taking it everywhere he goes .  this little crack in his emotional armor opens him up .  hiding behind his need for carol to return to work so she can serve him , he pays for a specialist to treat her son .  he even develops a friendship with simon .  all three people are heavily damaged .  melvin has retreated from life in his apartment .  carol has devoted herself to her son , convinced that she has to give up her life for him .  simon is estranged from his parents and his friends disappear when he is hospitalized and his money runs out .  a more unlikely trio to form relationships , you'd rarely see .  and in the midst of it all , there are some wonderful moments .  melvin is hilarious in his grouchiness and touching as he attempts to be nice .   " you make me want to be a better man , " he tells her .  one of the best aspects is that even as he opens up , he is still a curmudgeon .  carol , afraid that his monetary contribution to the wellness of her son hides a hidden agenda rushes over to his apartment in the rain to explain in no uncertain terms that she will never sleep with him .  it only takes her a second to realize that she is delivering that statement while looking as if she just left a wet t-shirt contest .  there's hardly anything left to say about jack nicholson .  i don't remember ever seeing him in anything less than a stellar performance and his over-the-edge melvin is no disappointment .  nicholson may be the best actor working today .  hunt does a commendable job matching nicholson's energy .  she isn't afraid to be seen as something less than a babe and her portrayal of exhausted run-down carol struggling with seemingly overwhelming obligations is top-notch .  their on-screen chemistry is a bit odd .  each does a wonderful job with the character , but together , there's something a little off .  it's a minor problem : they do work well together , but that missing element is what prevents this from being a four-star film .  director james l . brooks ( " terms of endearment " , " broadcast news " ) has a movie that is picking up awards by the bucketsful ( nominees for all the top golden globes , winners from the national board of review , inevitable oscars ) and has a winner on his hands .   " as good as it gets " isn't exactly the quality that the title says , but it's pretty darn close .   ( michael redman has written this column for over 22 years and as soon as he finishes this one , he's off to an annual 12 night celebration typically held in freezing weather during a snowstorm .  this year it's in the sixties and raining .  that wacky el nino . ) 
neg@ when walt disney pictures announced a live-action feature based on the '60s cartoon series of " mr . magoo , " special interests groups representing the vision-impaired let out a cry of dismay .  mr .  magoo , they claimed , would be an insult to the men and women they represented .  in fact , they were wrong .  mr .  magoo is not just an insult to the blind and near-blind , it's an insult to every human being who has the misfortune to suffer through this dreadfully unfunny , 90 minute atrocity .  it's stating the obvious to remark that disney appears to have run out of original ideas .  look at their roster of 1996 and 1997 releases , and you'll see a shocking list of retreads , including 101 dalmatians , george of the jungle , jungle2jungle , that darn cat ! , flubber , and now mr .  magoo .  the best of these ( george of the jungle ) was mildly entertaining .  the worst , mr .  magoo , exposes just how painful a bad movie experience can be .  the first problem with mr .  magoo is the script .  despite the collaboration of naked gun scribe pat proft , mr .  magoo is comically barren .  from beginning to end , there's not a laugh to be found .  every attempt at humor -- and there are lots of them -- falls flat with an audible thud .  you'd think that out of the dozens of gags jammed into this film , at least a few would work , but that's not the case .  i've had more laughs during ingmar bergman pictures .  then there's leslie nielsen , who looks , sounds , and acts absolutely nothing like the animated character ( memorably voiced by jim backus ) .  in the past , nielsen has proven his comic aptitude with roles in movies like airplane and the naked gun .  lately , however , he has been getting lazy , taking parts in the likes of dracula : dead and loving it , spy hard , and mr .  magoo .  even if nielsen was in top form , it would take an incredible stretch of imagination to see him as magoo ( especially since we're reminded of the original by the short cartoon segments that open and close the film ) , but " top form " is not a phrase i would use to describe his performance here .  this is strictly a take-the-money-and- run operation .  the story , which , like many disney stories , can be described in one long sentence : magoo is the only witness to the theft of a rare jewel from a museum , and , as he is trying to apprehend the thieves on his own , the police mistake him for the robber .  the cops are played by ernie hudson and stephen tobolowsky , who take their lumps early and often .  the bad guys are kelly lynch ( who does a lot of martial arts-type kicking ) , nick chinlund , and malcolm mcdowell ( who has the good sense to look embarrassed ) .  matt keeslar portrays one of magoo's sidekicks -- his nephew , waldo .  the bumbling man's other , more interesting companion is a dog named angus .  most of mr .  magoo's humor comes in the form of failed slapstick .  the cartoon violence level in this film doesn't approach that of home alone 3 or flubber , but it's still pretty acute , with characters getting hit on the head with sledgehammers and knocked off snowy precipices .  there's a non-violent bit with magoo preparing a chicken dinner that could have been funny if it was handled better , but , compared to mr . bean's recent , similar misadventure , it doesn't hold up well .  then there is the series of lame jokes that result from magoo's near blindness , such as the occasion when he mistakes a wild animal for a baby .  i'm willing to cut director stanley tong a little slack .  tong , a hong kong film maker trying to break into the hollywood market , has helmed several jackie chan movies , including first strike , rumble in the bronx , and supercop .  his chief talent , that of choreographing martial arts fights , is wasted here ( despite some high kicking by kelly lynch ) .  like john woo ( hard target ) and ringo lam ( maximum risk ) before him , it appears that tong has been consigned to the purgatory of making a bad movie as his entry into the american mainstream .  it is worth noting that , unlike many disney films which hold a perverse appeal for the under-10 crowd while driving parents to distraction , mr .  magoo appears to bore viewers of all ages .  the screening i attended was wall-to-wall kids , and , for the most part , they didn't seem to be enjoying themselves .  when the film was over , i asked one little girl what she thought of it .  her pained expression confirmed the adage that a picture can indeed be worth a thousand words .  mr .  magoo is the kind of movie that should be rejected by any potential viewer , sight unseen . 
pos@ seen at the 21st portland international film festival  film title : supermarket woman director : juzo itami country : japan 1997 cinematography : yonezo maeda music : toshiyuki honda cast : nobuko miyamoto , masahitko tsugawa , shiro ito , yuji miyake , akiko matsumoto super features : typical itami film . . .  funny and pointed in its own way .  if you don't care how and what the food you buy goes through in your local supermarket , then this film is not for you . . . .  maybe it is better to ignore it , as this strong and biting satire , as only juzo itami can deliver , will give you an insight as to what some foods go through .  having , in the past , made films that pulled every punch imaginable , from the family traditions ( the funeral ) , to taxes ( a taxing woman & a taxing woman returns ) , to the diabolical gangsters ( minbo ) , to hospitals ( the seriously ill ) , juzo itami , this time takes on the supermarkets' own war , to get the consumers .  and while this film has its funny side , in the crazy situations that it creates , it also shows another side , which is very much the attitude of a corporate structure that is more concerned with its profits than it is with any customer .  goro has a supermarket .  and a competitor comes into the neighborhood , trying to take him out of business by providing less expensive prices for everything that is sold in the supermarket .  bargains galore , its name , has in mind the closure of goro's humbler venue , so that in the end it can mark up its prices in any way it can .  goro hires hanako , a housewife whose talents seem to be better suited to management , than they are in anything else .  hanako , as she gets familiar with the operation , discovers many of the tricks of the trade , done by many of the elders in charge of each section of the market .  and the procedures , are not always " fresh " food , but a new packaging and a new date , to try and convince the customers that quality is on the shelves .  hanako's ideas take hold , starting with a few of the women that work in the supermarket , being that they do not even shop there at all .  and hanako discovers along the way that a few giveaways here and there make a bit of a difference .  if not cause some serious problems in the running of the store .  a price error , forces them to give away eggs for very low prices , and causes the store a few hassles , but , it brought the people in , and everyone knows that these customers will buy a few other things .  as the operation gets stronger , the competition also has trickery up its sleeve , and it has been undermining much of the operation by paybacks to one of the store managers , as well as the meat and fish elder supervisors .  eventually these people are found out , and hanako has to tread slowly and carefully , until in the end they all have a showdown .  and here , the truth and honesty win out , and even one of the elders decides to stay rather than go to work for the corrupt opponent .  in the process , they also find that " freshness " ( with some very funny jokes on this word as well ) becomes a much more important tool than they imagined .  with some very nice performances , in this hectic , and fast paced film , this film gives us a sitting of two hours that is satisfying in many ways , although a failed love story between goro and hanako does not come off much , even though towards the end it is suggested .  but this would take away from the satire and its strengths .  with food gags all over the place , the film lets you have it .  and what fun it is .  worth seeing .   ( editorial ) the director of this film , juzo itami , died shortly after the film was finished , and he left behind a legacy of comedy and satire that is rare , and uncompromising .  we would wish that he had been able to make one about film making , of which he must have had a few stories to tell , but we will have to do with much of the japanese society , and its many errant ways . . . .  not to say that these things do not happen anywhere else . . . .  america is no less guilty of any of these subjects at all , should anyone have the guts to tackle it . . .  we could learn something along the way , too . . . .  worth seeing , specially , is a taxing woman and its follow up a taxing woman returns .  the funeral is also good , although not as funny as the later films .  tampopo is also very enjoyable .  all four of these films are available in video , which means your best local site for foreign film may have them . . .  ask for it . 
neg@ synopsis : sonny koufax ( adam sandler ) is a rich , childish , angry man who has just been dumped by his girlfriend vanessa ( kristy swanson ) .  in a bid to impress vanessa sonny impersonates his friend kevin ( jon stewart ) and adopts a 5 year old boy named julian ( cole and dylan sprouse ) while kevin is on an overseas trip .  under sonny's supervision julian soon learns to lie to women , tell people how he " wipes his ass , " throw tantrums , and scream for his " god damned " treats .  self centered , julian breaks a school classmate's arm without apologizing or even realizing he has done anything wrong .  meanwhile sonny bribes julian with sugary talk , food , toys , and flashy promises in order to get the kid to perform .  not surprisingly the government takes julian away from sonny's incompetent supervision , and this leads to a custody battle .  opinion : it's a movie about an embittered creep teaching a little kid to be a jerk , and we all get cheap laughs because for 90 minutes the innocent kindergartner never finds out what it means when he mimics all the bad boy behavior .  that's the essence of big daddy .  but there's a bigger issue involved : marketing .  movies that are rated pg and pg-13 are heavily marketed towards children of preteen age and below .  on tv , film clips advertise these movies as family-friendly hit comedies .  then when you go see them they turn out to be either raunchy sex acts like austin powers with characters named fat bastard - - or big daddy where adult characters get their jollies by buddying up to naive five year olds and encouraging them to experiment with drugs and mistreatment .  folks in hollywood are trying to develop a preteen market for raunchy stuff , but i think most american parents would agree that early childhood is a time of mental innocence that should be protected from uncaring media market exploitation .  to many american mothers there's probably nothing more pathetic and unsettling than the sight of a theater full of unsupervised little eight year olds laughing raucously as movie character father adam sandler jokes about a woman's " ice cold tits . " 
pos@  " footloose " has only one goal in mind : to reel in an audience with cheesy sentiment and feel-good antics .  and i hate to admit it ; i fell for it .  the movie is about a teenager ( bacon ) who moves to a small town from the big city , and discovers that dancing has been banned by the local reverend ( lithgow ) .  he ends up falling for the preacher's daughter ( singer ) and showing the whole town what the magic of dance can do .  as mentioned at the beginning of this review , " footloose " is an extremely hokey and predictable teen drama .  there are virtually no surprises , and the writing is second-rate .  so why did i enjoy it so much ?  for one thing , the cast is great .  kevin bacon oozes charisma in an early role .  we're rooting for him right from the start , and , unlike most films of this genre , bacon doesn't play him as the " rebel without a clue " sort .  yes , he does rebel , but he's also polite when he needs to be .  and he never broods .  the rest of the cast is equally impressive .  john lithgow , seen here playing a normal guy for a change , is playing a man who would normally be a flat out villian .  but lithgow plays him as a concerned father who is trying to do what he feels is best for his daughter .  by the end of the film , we feel a genuine sense of love and understanding between him and the lori singer character .  another nice touch is the music .  we see the parents of the kids complaining that the music they listen to is filled with " sexual innuendos " , but that's not true at all .  the title track , performed by kenny loggins , is upbeat and fun .  during the final sequence , i was overcome with the urge to get off the couch and start dancing .  of course , i soon realized that would be a little pathetic .  anyway , " footloose " is a charming little surprise .  don't let the premise prevent you from watching it .  it sucked me in , and it'll do the same to you . 
neg@ tv's buffy finds herself on the other side of the supernatural spectrum in " simply irresistible . "  sarah michelle gellar , that never-ceasing crusader against never-ending evil every tuesday night on the wb network , here plays a down-on-her-luck chef suspected of dabbling in witchcraft after her flailing restaurant receives help in the form of magically scrumptious meals .  taste test results : some vampire slaying , though out of place , would have really livened this excruciating movie up .   " simply irresistible " is actually quite easy to deny , a disaster of culinary and other proportions pretty much from the opening on .  gellar's amanda finds herself falling for harried henri bendel exec tom ( sean patrick flannery of powder ) around the same time she discovers an uncanny ability to mystically manifest emotions in her cooking , a secret ingredient that arouses both his interest in her and the public's in her tiny tribeca eatery .  all this love and sorcery have a lot to do with the telekinetic crab that also figures into the story , a tale that at times plays like an american spin on 1993's mexican classic " like water for chocolate . "  several differences : one , " like water " didn't have a telekinetic crab , and two , " like water " was a good film .   " simply irresistible , " on the other hand , is about as challenging as an easy-bake oven .  amateurishly staged scenes cancel each other out in their badness , from an embarrassing seduction in a literal vanilla fog to an impromptu dance sequence where tom and amanda do their best fred and ginger - though fred and ginger never took part in anything this garish .  the intrusive musical score distracts from the flat dialogue at regular intervals , but it's not like you're were going to miss much .  in fact , take away the few instances of salty language and this has made-for-disney channel written all over it .  but a majority of " simply irresistible " 's resistibility factor has less to do with the afore-mentioned overkill than the bland leads - tom and amanda are so thin and ambiguously defined that there's just no fun rooting for their inevitable " happily ever after . "  nor do the otherworldly powers that serve to bring them together make sense , so we're left with a ho-hum relationship based on enchanted eclairs ; it's not going to last long , people .  perhaps sensing this , the filmmakers have piled on weird supporting characters for acting vets like betty buckley , dylan baker and patricia clarkson , but they don't go anywhere either .  in fact , nothing in " simply irresistible " goes anywhere save for gellar , and she doesn't go somewhere so much as you wish she'd go _somewhere_ - like to a better movie .  already proving major talent with relatively few big- and small-screen roles , she's the sole reason this overcooked souffle isn't completely fit for the garbage disposal , looking smashing in her todd oldham-designed duds and investing much more in her perfunctory part than she ever gets in return .  it's certainly a dish best not served in it's current condition , but one can only guess that , without gellar , " simply irresistible " would be strictly unwatchable . 
pos@ full metal jacket , very much like every other hard-hitting film about the vietnam war , is an shocking , emotional depiction of the war that effected almost everyone in america .  this film is more like platoon than any other in the way that it chronicles the struggles of a young man ( private joker , played by matthew modine ) during his tour in the vietnam war .  however , full metal jacket gives the audience an insight into combat life very rarely seen before : boot camp .  these sequences are considered to be the best part in this three act film , even though i found the later portions to be equally stunning .  as in platoon , full metal jacket gets off to a quick start .  the opening sequence is the initiation for the recruits , which is getting their heads shaved .  from there , they find themselves standing at attention and receiving their orders from the extremely hard and punishing sergeant hartman , played extremely well by the former drill instructor r . lee ermey .  apparently , the solution was found for the perfect man to play a drill instructor in the movies , because ermey depicts his character extremely well and will make you thank whomever that you were never subjected to such horrible situations .  private joker gets off on the wrong foot with the sergeant , as does the large bodied private leonard lawrence ( vincent d'onofrio ) , whom is dubbed 'gomer pyle' by sgt .  hartman .  the film is continually narrated by private joker , in which he explains his visions on what is going on .  the entire corps , although repeatedly hammered by sgt .  hartman , continues on .  private pyle , however , seems to be the rag doll for the drill instructor .  he continually absorbs the worst punishment and humiliation , and it basically does not stop .  that is , until sgt .  hartman comes up with a new plan .  he will punish the rest of the soon-to-be-marines for pyle's goof-ups , even after joker was assigned to help him out in the best way he can .  pyle then receives punishment from his fellow recruits , and things take a turn for the worst .  pyle proves that not everyone is emotionally , physically , and mentally cut out for the life of a marine .  after graduation , joker is sent over to the height of the action in order to document the war , which is his service .  he is not a member of the infantry , and it is unclear if he will ever actually find himself in combat .  when he sets out on a documenting mission , this question becomes very clear from the start .  joker joins up with a platoon , along with his hometown friend cowboy ( arliss howard ) , and follows their everyday actions , interviewing and filmming them along the way .  he also soon finds himself in a position in which he must fight , or die .  again , as in the tradition of vietnam war films , full metal jacket can be debated as to whether it is an anti-war film or not .  a few of the more powerful scenes toward the end will leave you to decide .  full metal jacket succeeds extremely well in documenting the life of a young man in vietnam , as have others in the past .  this film , in different ways , also can be viewed as more powerful than others .  that , again , is up for debate and depends on your opinion .  one thing is for sure , however ; no one ever wants to experience the absolute hell that these soldiers are subjected to .  unfortunately , many did . 
neg@  " knock off " is exactly that : a cheap knock off of an action movie .  it's also the worst movie i have seen thus far this year .  i figured it would be at least a couple of months before i saw the worst film of 1998 , but alas , it has already been found .  jean-claude van damme stars as ( i think ) a designer jeans executive who discovers his half-brother has been supplying him with cheaper goods .  rob schneider plays van damme's partner , and rochon plays . . .  actually , i have no idea who rochon was supposed to be .  she just sort of popped up halfway through without an explanation as to why she was there .  many things are not explained in this film , but i do know that for some bizarre reason , van damme seemed to be doing a jackie chan impression throughout the flick .  where chan comes off as endearing in his " normal guy " character seen in many of his films , van damme just comes off as a wimp .  we're never given any clear explanation as to the basis for many of his actions .  to be more clear : i did not even know who he was supposed to be until about an hour into the movie , and even then , it was not made too clear .  the film has been directed in the style of some strange film experiment gone horribly wrong .  tsui hark ( who directed van damme's last movie , the bad , but not nearly as bad as this , " double team " ) never lets the camera rest for a second , and that's no exaggeration .  we are even treated to a five second shot from the point of view of van damme's foot entering a shoe .  fabulous !  seriously , though , i have no problem with directors who want to play around with film conventions , as long as they don't get carried away .  for example , look at sam raimi .   " army of darkness " , one of his best movies , features some of the most inventive camera work i have ever seen , but raimi never lets the special effects get in the way of story .  that's a concept that tsui can't seem to grasp .  the special effects and outrageous camera angles * rule * " knock off " to the point where the audience doesn't have a clue as to what's happening any more .  another problem with the film is that it looks cheap .  the film stock used is of such low caliber that i thought i was watching one of those chinese films shown really late at night .  and for some inexplicable reason , everyone's voice seems to have been dubbed .  even the stars .  and even the special effects , seemingly the only aspect of the film the director actually cared about , are inconsistent .  for example , there is a scene in which van damme drives a car out of a window .  the car slams into the ground , and the left wheel is completely destroyed .  seconds later , the car drives off at full speed .  hey , i have no problem suspending my disbelief in an action movie , but a line must be drawn somewhere .  finally , the acting .  nobody gives a good performance in this film .  van damme , an actor i usually like , is way off the mark playing " everyman " .  and schneider , here to provide comic relief i assume , is totally unfunny and over acts his way through every scene .  even the usually solid paul sorvino gives a terribly over-the-top performance as . . .  once again , i have no idea who he was supposed to be .  in case i haven't yet made it clear enough , " knock off " is the worst movie of van damme's career and possibly the worst movie of the decade .  and it's not even one of those movies that's so bad it's funny .  it's too inept to be funny .  there are no redeeming factors in " knock off " and i seriously hope that every print of this film is burned to a crisp and that somehow my memory of watching the film can be erased . 
pos@ when quentin tarantino made " pulp fiction " , he was not only making the greatest film of the 90s ; he was also making what i believe to be the most influential movie of all time .  but before you send me hate-mail for not giving that title to " citizen kane " , hear me out .  much like " citizen kane " , " pulp fiction " has changed movie making forever .  but i think the latter has had a tad more impact .   " pulp fiction " has actually ushered in a new era of film making .  it has altered the way films will be viewed .   " fiction " has spawned so many imitations , i've lost count .  sure , some have been excellent ( " bound " and " the usual suspects " spring immediately to mind ) , but any serious movie-goer recognizes " pulp fiction " as the original neo-noir of the 90s .  in this review , i hope to change all the people's minds who have criticized it for it's excessive profanity and violence ( which , by the way , isn't really that graphic ) .  the most brilliant aspect of tarantino's masterpiece is the screenplay .  it is filled with so much classic dialogue ( the " quarter pounder with cheese " speech will go down in history ) , it should be required reading for any film student , if it isn't already .  the story ( told in unorthodox non-linear format ) centers around three main episodes , all of which eventually intertwine .  the first , titled " vincent vega and marcellus wallace's wife " , deals with a very loaded john travolta ( i forgot to mention the cool heroin shoot-up sequence ) taking mia wallace ( a star-making performance by uma thurman ) , his bosses wife , out on a date to a cool 50s restaurant called jack rabbit slim's .  they talk for a while ( with the occasional " uncomfortable silence " ) , mostly about a guy called tony rocky horror .  after giving marcellus' new bride a foot massage , he was thrown off a building and into a greenhouse , giving him a " speech impediment " .  they also partake in a cool dance contest and end up twisting to the chuck berry classic " you never can tell " .  i won't reveal the rest of the story , but i'll definitely say that it turns out to be a real bummer of a night , despite the cool trophy they win .  the second story ( the least of the three but still four stars ) stars bruce willis ( proving he can play someone other than john mcclain in the " die hard " flicks ) as boxer butch coolidge .  previously in the film ( like i said , it's told in non-linear form ) , he had made a deal with marcellus wallace that he would take a fall in a match .  as it turns out , he not only doesn't take the fall , but he ends up actually killing his opponent .  he takes a cab to his half-witted girlfriend's apartment , and to make a long story short , ends up going back to his own place to retrieve a gold watch , sort of a family heirloom explained by christopher walken in a hilarious flash-back sequence .  on his way home , he bumps into ( literally ) marcellus .  the two winde up prisoner to two hillbilly sex murderers , which results in the infamous " gimp " scene , which is very reminicent of the " squeal like a pig ! "  scene from " deliverance " .  the last ( and best , in my opinion ) of the episodes features john travolta ( again ) and samuel l . jackson ( in the best performance of any supporting actor ever ) as two slightly off-kilter hitmen trying to rid themselves of a bloody car .  they seek help with a friend of jackson's ( played by the q-man himself ) , desperately in need of a stress ball .  they end up calling a " cleaner " of sorts , played by the god among men harvey keitel , to help them out .  in the end , the story brilliantly loops around itself , actually ending where it began .  if you haven't already seen the film ( or even if you have , for that matter ) , i suggest you invest your money in a copy of the letterbox collectors edition .  it features two previously unreleased scenes and the original film restored how it was originally meant to be seen .  earlier today , i bought this version and watched it a few hours ago .  what the pan-and-scan did to this movie is inexcusable .  that version cut out , like , half the movie .  what i have missed in the past years of viewing this flick is amazing .  for instance , when travolta and jackson are in the apartment near the end , the widescreen version allows you to see that several things on the walls make crosses .  this might help explain the divine intervention that takes place .  just a theory . . .  one of the things that pisses people off so much about this movie is that tarantino borrowed alot of scenes from other movies ( i . e .   " psycho " " kiss me deadly " , " deliverance " , etc . ) .  but why shouldn't he ?  it's not like he out-right and blatantly stole .  give the guy a break .  in case you haven't already noticed , i believe " pulp fiction " is a supremely excellent film and one of the best of all time ( up there with such greats as " casablanca " and " the godfather " ) .  trust me , you will not see a better film come out of the 90s .  and besides , it's one hell of a ride .  note : if anyone knows how i could get a " bad motherfucker " wallet , please e-mail me .  any help would be greatly appreciated . 
neg@ look ! the new version of " psycho " came out and the world didn't end !  i guess gus van sant really isn't the bringer of the apocalypse !  unfortunately , though , that " psycho " didn't end the world as we know is the best thing that can be said for it .  van sant's controversial " re-telling " of alfred hitchcock's classic 1960 film has polarized filmgoers everywhere ( even before it premiered . )  without benefit of an actual viewing , many have said that the film will , at best , suck .  being an ( almost ) good critic , i waited until i actually saw it to decide that the film , at best , sucked ( and that concludes the use of the word " suck " and , hopefully , the thoughts that i am a brain-dead orangutan . )  director gus van sant took the original hitchcock film and refilmed it , shot-for-shot , using the same , exact script ( with a few minor alterations . )  the inherent challenge was in making the film suspenseful and scary , even though a large group of the audience will know exactly what will happen at the exact time .  suspense probably could have been attained if the actors had been able to create something new or different than the original .  sadly , that did not occur .  it is hard to be overshadowed by vera miles and john gavin ( from the original " psycho ) , but that is what exactly happened to julianne moore and viggo mortensen .  in moore's case , the film would have been helped if " the x- files " gillian anderson had been cast instead ; especially since moore goes through the entire film doing a scully impression !  from the cold demeanor and expressions to her rigid way of forming a sentence , moore is scully !  mortensen ( who i liked in " g . i .  jane " ) opts to play sam loomis as a cowboy/hick , which would have been nice if he had gone past that starting point .  sam has a twang and a cowboy hat , but that's about it .  mortensen turns in one of the most uptight performance in recent memory .  anne heche , in the janet leigh role , does a few good things in her brief time on screen .  at least her marion crane has a little life in her , which can't be said for most of the rest of the cast .  the best work , though , comes from vince vaughn , as the demented mama's boy , norman bates .  he's not going to make anyone forget anthony perkins , but he is effective both in being naughty and nice .  the best part of the film is the dinner scene heche and vaughn , where they simply talk .  there is some solid acting there , something that is not carried through the rest of the film .  van sant has made a boring film .  all the camera tricks that hitchcock so eloquently used in 1960 aren't as eye-catching now .  what passed for brilliance then has been copied so many times by so many directors that they don't impress or excite .  van sant , in what i assume is a grasp at originality , decided to put some stream-of-consciousness images into a few famous scenes ( was that a lamb in the middle of the road ? )  these images , included with some questionable editing choices , took away from the scenes themselves and caused , at first , bewilderment and , later , laughter .  definitely not hitchcock's intention !  at least danny elfman had the good sense to not mess with bernard herrmann's original famous and terrific score .  if a film like " psycho " does not frighten , then what's the point .  aside from norman , the characters are thinly drawn people who leave no connection with the audience .  there are things van sant and company could have done to at least make their recreation interesting .  in the end , however , the new " psycho " is a noble attempt , but , alas , a dismal failure . 
pos@ capsule : bleak and point-blank -- just the way it should be .  makes its case with cold-blooded precision and intelligence .   " serial killer chic " is a relatively new entry to the cultural vocabulary , and one of the more stomach-turning ones .  i've never found someone automatically admirable or even interesting because they killed creatively or in great numbers , and because of that i had apprehensions about seeing henry .  i wasn't sure i wanted to see the story of multiple murderer henry lee lucas portrayed as some kind of nihilistic hero/antihero .  thankfully , that's not the way henry works .  the director , john mcnaughton , took a small budget and a gallery of actor friends and created a chilling and intelligent piece of work .  it doesn't provide cheap-jack explanations for henry's behavior : it shows him up for what he is , an unrepentant and un-idolizable man who killed when the mood struck him .  at the film's opening , henry's friend ottis toole has a sister , who comes by to stay while she tries to find work in chicago .  in a viciously riveting scene , he admits matter-of-factly to having murdered his own mother , and she covers his hand with hers .  they are damned together from that moment on .  henry and ottis eventually begin to kill for fun .  the movie is especially good at showing how they seem to have drifted casually into it : there's a scene where the two go to buy a new tv .  the pawnbroker they talk to goads henry with ugly words , and henry responds by stabbing the man to death with a soldering iron .  no preface -- it smashes into us as suddenly as it does the broker .  in a scene which many damned the movie for , unseen , they steal a video camera and film the murder of a whole household , playing it back over and over again for their own enjoyment .  the movie itself , however , does not glorify the killings , but shows instead that henry feels no joy at his work , only irritation .  henry succeeds thanks to excellent writing and direction as well as acting .  michael rooker is credible as henry from the first frame , just standing there , and the rest of the cast works by being unaffected and casual as well .  the producers had originally comissioned a slasher film from mcnaughton , but he decided to give them something more memorable , and consequently the film nearly didn't see release .  the film does not glorify or justify -- it just shows us , with unflinching coldness , what henry was .  i'm hard pressed to see how anyone can see this and consider henry any kind of " victim " or " hero " .  then again , probably , so would henry . 
neg@ at one point in this movie there is a staging of an opera that goes completely wrong .  but one member of the crowd stands up and cheers , thinking the performance was planned , and applauding it for their efforts .  that's " dirty work " in a nutshell .  a very different kind of movie .  this is not a movie that i can easily review .  the critic in me analyzes the structure , plot , acting , characters .   .   . and  tells me this movie is terrible .  but the norm macdonald fan in me had me rolling on the floor laughing .  this movie plays more like an hbo sketch comedy than a movie .  it's a one note concept .  mitch and sam need $50000 in order to bribe a doctor to give their father a heart transplant before other more needy patients .  realizing they are very good at revenge plots , they open a revenge for hire business , eventually running afoul of a rich businessman played by christopher macdonald ( who after roles in " happy gilmore " and " veronica's closet " seems typcast in this role ) , who sends them to destroy a building that mitch learns is the home of his girlfriend's grandmother , thus leading them to plot against the rich businessman on the night of the grand opening of a new opera house .  first the critic in me .  the plot is the standard poor guy vs evil rich guy device , where the main character meets the girl of his dreams along the way .  here's the catch .  none of the characters are sympathetic .  they're all selfish jerks who don't care who they hurt in their attempts to do whatever they want .  the jokes are juvenile , crude , appealing to the worst elements in people .  there's jokes about prostitutes , the homeless , beastiality , anal sex .  there's even a subplot that's developed , it seems , only to make jokes about infidelity and incest .  and i loved watching it .  i was a huge fan of norm macdonald's sarcastic , to-the-point comedy on saturday night live , and this movie is an hour and a half of it .  norm macdonald takes a joke , strips it to the core , and tells it like it is with a dry wit .  like the scene were he and his friend are learning the ropes at a new construction job .  the foreman goes over the basics , which mitch and sam don't understand .  how do they get out of it ?  by admiting they lied on their resumes , and don't know a thing about construction !  and surprise , they get fired .  the characters are incredibly mean-spirited .  there's a father who's loud and obnoxious , a gambling addicted doctor played by chevy chase who tells sam of his father's condition by saying " if i were a gambling man i'd put a lot of money on death . "  the businessman cole who always has his dog spunky , and does who knows what with it .  and then there's mitch and sam , who , thinking they can get $50000 by destroying a building , ponder how their actions would ruin the lives of the residents .   " too bad we have to do it , " mitch says .  here's a movie where every joke that is executed as it is set up , where you see every punchline coming , where every spot profanity could be used and then is used .  at least the film is honest , and makes no mistake that it is anything more than idiotic .  but at least it isn't dull , and it isn't predictable .  and that's the way it should be .  it's sketch comedy , and if you're a fan of norm macdonald , you'll love it .  the jokes are crude , the characters are mean to the core , the attitude of the movie is that it just doesn't care .  if you don't like norm macdonald , or stupid movies , then you probably won't like this one .  the jokes are crude , the characters are mean to the core , the attitude of the movie is that it just doesn't care .  so before seeing this one , tune your mindset , and prepare for a slew of norm macdonald humor , gay animal sex , prison rape jokes , uncaring characters , and one last performance from chris farley .  the critic in me says ( * ) but i give it an 8 ( * * * ) .  i just couldn't stop laughing . 
pos@  " desperate measures " was something i was excited about seeing back when it was originally scheduled to be released : summer '97 .  for some reason , it was delayed until hollywood's traditional dumping ground : january .  now that it's out , i see no real reason for that delay , as it's a simple yet highly entertaining film .  michael keaton stars as a maniacial murderer who's bone marrow can save the life of the dying son of a san francisco police detective ( garcia ) .  keaton agrees to the transplant , only so he can attempt escape .  he succeeds , in a plan that of course could only work in the movies .  the police force is now trying to kill keaton , while garcia is working against them trying to keep keaton alive in order to save his son .  the film definately has it's flaws .  the plot is strictly tv movie of the week fare , but the acting and direction certainly boost it far above that status .  also , after keaton's escape , garcia's captain barks at him " how many men have to die to save your kid's life ? "  which the film treats as such an evil and insignificant remark .  the thing is , it's a vaild point .  how many people have to be needlessly crippled , burned , and killed just to save this one child ?  what's the greater good here ?  many lives or one life ?  if movies really had guts nowadays , i would have loved to have seen this movie come down to a final choice for garcia's character .  place him in a situation where he knows that he has to kill keaton because keaton is about to kill someone else .  alas , movies these days generally have no such ambition to pull the audience's strings in ways which might make the uncomfortable .  despite a few silly moments ( and one or two really stupid ones ) , the good things about " desperate measures " outnumber the bad .  the main highlight would be keaton's performance .  the character could have easily been an overacting , scene chewing freak , but keaton underplays it nicely .  he's not as menacing as he was in " pacific heights " or even as menacing as he was in " batman " ( yes kids , batman used to be a dark character ) , but you certainly get the idea that he's evil .  even the final scene of the film , which normally i would just hate , seems strangely appropriate for this film .  so much so that i didn't mind it in the slightest .  and another bonus : the film takes place in san francisco , which usually means a car chase on those hills that you've seen a billion times before .  and for a moment , it looked as though it was about to happen .  but it doesn't , and that's creative .  [r] 
neg@ synopsis : al simmons , top-notch assasin with a guilty conscience , dies in a fiery explosion and goes to hell .  making a pact with malebolgia , a chief demon there , simmons returns to earth 5 years later reborn as spawn , a general in hell's army donning a necroplasmic costume replete with knives , chains , and a morphing cape .  sullen , wise cogliostro and flatulating , wisecracking violator vy for spawn's attention .  comments : when todd mcfarlane left marvel comics ( where he had made a name for himself as a first-rate comic book penciller on the " spider-man " titles ) to join the newly-formed , creator-owned image comics , a new comic book legend was born : spawn .  mcfarlane's " spawn " immediately became a commercial and critical success and a defining comic book series of the 1990s .  mcfarlane created a hero who was not only original but visually intricate , allowing mcfarlane to utilize his knack for artistic detail to the max .  the early " spawn " issues brilliantly capture mcfarlane's genius at illustration and show his early attempts at writing .  with the popularity of " spawn " and the success of the current warner bros . 's batman film franchise , a movie version of some sort seemed inevitable for spawn .  in the summer of 1997 , hence , new line cinema released spawn , a live-action film based on the groundbreaking series .  this topheavy exercise in violence and special effects unfortunately topples quickly and leaves fans of the comic book , like me , numbed by how much spawn misses the mark .  what happened ?  why is spawn so bad ?  todd mcfarlane himself executive produced this disappointing misfire and even appears in a cameo .  i don't think , however , that his presence necessarily hurt ( or helped ) the film .  i place the blame , in part , on the recent hollywood trend , fueled by public demand apparently , for special effects blow-out movies utilizing the latest computer technology .  these films focus upon the effects at the expense of everything else : character , plot , dialogue , etc . spawn , reflecting this trend , shows the audience one gratuitous scene after another populated with morphing characters and filled with unnecessary pyrotechnics .  hardly a minute goes by in this film without fires , explosions , knives and chains appearing out of nowhere , glowing eyes , or constantly transforming demons .  a lot of it is visually interesting and technically solid , don't get me wrong , but , because the script and cast aren't engaging , spawn ultimately comes across like overwrought wallpaper ( the surface may capture the eye , but nothing exists underneath ) .  spawn's translation of the comic book suffers the most at the storyline level .  mcfarlane's spawn was a tortured hero .  a mercenary by trade , al simmons was nonetheless a warm man in love with the beautiful wanda .  having died and journeyed to hell , he made a pact to return to earth to be with wanda .  simmons , however , discovers that his memories are fragmented , his body a creepy mess , and his wife married .  despite his sometimes violent nature , readers couldn't help but feel sympathetic toward his plight as the spawn of the underworld .  spawn attempts to show all of this but does not spend nearly the time it should to do so .  when the characters are developed , they seem absurd rather than touching .  the cartoonish dialogue and implausible subplot ( a general possesses the antidote to a supervirus called heat-16 which he wishes to unleash to enslave the world ) do not help matters .  spawn , in an apparent attempt to duplicate the success of batman , also unwisely spends too much time on a villain , the violator ( batman favored the joker over batman ) .  john leguizamo , like jack nicholson in batman , receives top billing in the cast as the violator ; michael jai white ( al simmons / spawn ) is second .  i ordinarily find leguizamo an intensely annoying presence in films which seems to make him a perfect candidate for the violator .  the film , however , spends so much time on the violator's offensive antics that they grate on the nerves .  apparently meant to be the comic relief in the film ( as nicholson was in batman ) , especially when contrasted with the sullen spawn , the violator's lines are oftentimes grotesque and unfunny , leaving the audience wishing he would leave .  leguizamo does a satisfactory job in the role , but he is seen far too often in the film .  michael jai white , a relative newcomer to theatrical releases , seems to be an appealing actor , and he handles his role adequately , but we see little of him without various masks on .  more time needed to be spent on white's character before he became spawn for the movie to pull at the heartstrings .  a special note should be made about martin sheen as the over-the-top , obnoxious , evil general wynn .  easily the hammiest performance in the movie , it's hard to imagine how sheen mucked up his role so much ; after all , he played a vietnam assasin brilliantly in the great apocalypse now .  sheen's excessive demeanor do not help the audience accept him as a mastermind villain and comes as a surprise considering his extensive career in film .  many other elements conspire with the disappointing script and abundant special effects to drag spawn down .  mtv-style , jerky , in-your-face editing is one of them .  flames , for example , roll across the screen sometimes to announce a shift in setting .  cogliostro , unlikely wannabe guide for spawn , serves as a poor narrator for the film .  he goofily tells the audience , at one point , that " how much of [spawn's] humanity is left remains to be seen , " as if the audience really cares as one violent sequence leads to another .  the music , finally , assaults the audience as much as the manic violence and offensive dialogue .  loud and obnoxious hard rock fused with drum loops dominate some scenes .  to be fair , however , marilyn manson's " long hard road out of hell " effectively compliments spawn's return to earth , while filter and the crystal method's " ( can't you ) trip like i do " proves a surprisingly fitting theme song .  for as good a comic book as it is , " spawn " did not spawn a good movie .  spawn , instead , suffers from too much pomp and circumstance , and too little plot and character development .  it receives two stars for its technically well-done special effects .  many other films , though , have equal , if not superior , special effects and are much better .  rated pg-13 , spawn seems more violent than many r-rated movies and probably wouldn't be appropriate for the very young . 
pos@ kevin smith is like a big kid .  his humor is that of a sophisticated juvenile's .  he grew up idolizing star wars and loves comic books , having also written a few .  he also has a cult following , mostly composed of teenagers , college students , and smith's own fellow adolescent-minded grownups .  smith is hilarious in person and in writing , but when he tries to be earnest and moralize , that is when he goes wrong .  kevin smith is a better writer than director , and he'll be the first to tell you that .  that might also be part of the reason why his moralizing comes across as so heavy-handed .  great directors show us their theses instead of having the characters sermonize them .  this was true in the overrated chasing amy , and it is true for dogma as well .  that is not to say smith's message is a bad one .  in dogma , smith tells us that problems arise when people believe beyond any doubt that their insight into god and god's desires is superior to anyone else's .  basically , dogmatism is bad .  changing the minds of the dogmatic is virtually impossible , and since the dogmatic believe that they have special insight , they also know what is best for you , whether you like it or not .  this is not exactly a new message in movies ( see inherit the wind ) , but i have no problems with recycling old ones , particularly since dogma's protesters are proving smith's point .  smith's own problem with delivering this message is that he beats us over the head with it like we are reading a dogma for dummies book .  but this is smith's personality , and his simplistic views neglect such adult issues as how does one interpret the bible ( or koran , etc . ) correctly ( or if there even is a correctly ) and how one settles disputes of heretofore dogmatic concerns .  the story concerns abortion clinic worker bethany ( linda fiorentino ) being chosen by voice of god , metatron ( alan rickman ) , to prevent the destruction of the universe by two fallen angels , bartleby ( ben affleck ) and angel of death , loki ( matt damon ) .  along the way , forgotten thirteenth apostle , rufus ( chris rock ) , stripper muse serendipity ( salma hayek ) , and slacker duo jay and silent bob ( jason mewes and kevin smith himself ) come to bethany's aid .  fallen muse , azrael ( jason lee ) , proves to be the behind-the-scenes manipulator for all the chicanery .  the logical but convoluted plot only exists as an excuse for the jokes and to make smith's points , and in itself , has little dramatic momentum .  among the supposedly outrageous claims made by the film is that god is a woman , jesus was black , and the bible was written by a bunch of racist , misogynistic white men .  of course , kevin smith does not necessarily subscribe to these ideas himself .  they are a metaphor for the fears and insecurities of the dogmatic .  smith says as much in his amusing disclaimer that precedes the movie .  when harvey weinstein asked smith to put it into the film before cannes , smith thought it might give validation to protesters' claims that the film was sacrilegious , but then he rethought it and turned the disclaimer into a joke .  the film's humor is uneven .  some parts are very funny as when bethany goes for a fire extinguisher when metatron makes a burning-bush kind of entrance .  but many of the film's jokes just bomb , as in virtually anything involving salma hayek's serendipity .  also , some of the jokes can be seen coming from a mile away .  still , smith keeps the zingers coming at a sufficiently rapid pace .  among the actors , fiorentino and rickman stand out by far .  fiorentino virtually by herself gives the film emotional weight .  damon and affleck are fairly lackluster .  rock and hayek exist in the film pretty much only as comic relief as are mews and smith .  but the latter duo fare much better because jay and silent bob , who recur in all of smith's movies , are much more in line with smith's brand of humor .  bud cort , george carlin , janeane garofalo , guinevere turner , and alanis morissette all make cameo appearances . 
neg@ synopsis : back-up quarterback moxxon becomes starting quarterback midway through his senior year of high school , even though he'd rather read " slaughterhouse five " than the playbook .  evil football coach kilmer throws away moxxon's book , though , while the evil team physician injects painkillers into the players .  in the meantime , moxxon's kid brother forms a cult , and a bubblegum-blond cheerleader smears whip cream on herself to seduce the new star quarterback .  comments : since i usually review horror and science fiction films , i feel a little out of my league discussing this teen football movie .   ( pun intended .  thank you ! )  varsity blues was produced by mtv , and it really shows .  several extended scenes allow for a continual soundtrack of mediocre pop songs meant to appeal to the adolescent male audience this crap was intended for .  the teenagers all have reasons for their melodramatic angst .  the adults all have problems , of course , and , as one-dimensional characters , they are all fanatically obssessed with how their local high school football team performs .  yes , this movie represents high school life in mtv-land .  this is a land where your health teacher is also a part-time stripper , your ice cream store attendant girlfriend wears an egyptian ankh around her neck , your kid brother forms a " cute " cult , your football coach is an uncaring , obssessive madman , and your friends' lives consist of nothing but getting laid and driving around in cop cars naked .  all you , as the main character , want to do , however , is read " slaughterhouse five " and attend brown university in the fall .  well , at least this is a little more realistic than mtv's " the real world . "  varsity blues stars james van der beek , this week's teen tv star making the leap to the big screen .  he plays the hick moxxon adequately , though some of his emotional dialogue will make people chuckle .   ( " you dawn't own mah life ! "  who would want to ? )  jon voight , the stock evil guy in countless other movies , is , surprise , the stock evil guy here .  but is he really evil , or is he a product of society ?  after all , everybody , young and old , in this movie has no life whatsoever and do nothing but obssess over high school football .  maybe the pressures of the 90 screaming fans at the football field drove evil coach kilmer evil .  the film's screenplay never answers this burning question .  at times , iliff's story does show glimmers of touching or humorous scenes , but , before the audience gets their hopes up that there might be something redeeming in this movie , they get trashed with another lengthy party sequence or overwrought football game .  the movie's pacing is slow , and the plot turns are mindnumbingly obvious from start to finish .  i suppose i'm being a little hard on varsity blues .  maybe i'm just a little miffed that i had to pay 3 bucks to see it , even though it was dollar night at the cinema .  something about a request from the studio made the theater charge more money .  i found the film oftentimes ludicrous and boring .  three guys in front of us smuggled beer into the the theater .  i wished i had thought of that .  alcohol , lots of it , may have helped the viewing experience . 
pos@ with a team of 200 graphic artists and animators working on this first film production from game developer squaresoft's square pictures , final fantasy , inspired by the top-selling game franchise , is visually awe-inspiring and groundbreaking .  no doubt , you have never seen anything like this film , and the hyperbolic fanfare surrounding its release is absolutely deserved .  but why does such a tremendous feat of eye candy have to be weighted down with a problematic story , wooden dialogue and generally uncharismatic voice acting ?  obviously , the primary goal of the film is to stun and amaze audiences with extremely sophisticated cgi .  everything you see in the film is rendered in great detail : individual threads in the fabric , individual strands of hair swaying , wrinkles and pimples on skin , incredible water effects .  overall , the expressions and lip movements fairly accurately match the emotions and dialogue ; and the times when they don't sync perfectly really stand out , since the animation is usually so dazzling .  but you won't spend much time dwelling on those gaffes -- as soon as you catch one , the next stellar monster or effect will have you muttering , " wow . . . "  like the series of games , final fantasy's plot and characters have little to do with its predecessors , outside of being born from the same japanese mastermind , hironobu sakaguchi .  it's the year 2065 , and humans are prisoners in caged cities of their own making that guard them from an outside world now overrun with deadly alien " phantoms . "  whenever a human comes in contact with the ghostly visitors , the often-invisible beings pass through the body and wrench out its soul ( for some unexplainable reason ) .  while many humans agree with a plan by monomaniacal general hein ( james woods ) to blast the aliens with a " zeus cannon , " dr . aki ross ( ming-na ) and dr . sid ( donald sutherland ) plan to build a " wave " using eight collected " spirits " to counteract the phantoms and kill them off .  while the images serve the sci-fi aspect of the film well , the storytelling doesn't .  it's unfortunate , because the plot seems so intricately thought out .  perhaps it was far too complex and enormous to be entirely incorporated into the script .  some could blame this weakness on the fact that it was a japanese concept translated to english , except two americans wrote the screenplay .  nevertheless , the end result is an elaborate story complicated by confusing holes .  why do these aliens feed on souls ?  if they can pass through bodies and ships , how can humans hurt them with guns ?  what is so special about the " spirits " that they would create a force strong enough to destroy the aliens ?  worse yet , the dialogue is scripted to be either like a science-heavy star trek episode , an installment of die hard , or a sappy love story , depending on who's doing the talking .  for the most part , it's bearable considering the genre , but tedious speeches and cheesy lines don't do anything to help the actors and can get annoying in the longer scenes .  the only exception is steve buscemi as pilot neil fleming , who always has great cracks during tense moments .  but , when the lights come up and the credits roll , you're more likely to be remarking on how fantastic the film looked .  there's no question that the roughly 33 million people who have bought at least one final fantasy game will be eager to see this movie , and so should anyone who enjoys being floored by the best cg animation ever put to film .  you'd be living in a fantasy world of your own if you expected much more . 
neg@ if you're the kind of person who goes to see movies just because you long for some of that overpriced theatre popcorn ( butter optional ) , then this is the movie for you !  indeed , this has got to be either one of the most unimaginative rip-offs of other recent action movies , or an incredibly unfunny spoof of them .  it's difficult to fathom such insipidness unless you actually watch this film .  but at least we're warned very quickly that we may regret our ticket purchase , giving us an opportunity to sneak on out and into the adjacent show .  what are the four ingredients of a really bad action movie ?  first , the movie gives us an introductory premise .  huge caverns exist deep beneath the ocean floor , and in this area , many ships have disappeared .  oooh . . . scary !  secondly , a cheesy soundtrack tries to connote a tone of mystery , but only succeeds in drowning our ears with an abrasive musical score .  third , the main character is a mercenary that delivers goods without asking about the contents of his cargo ( treat williams ) .  he operates a sophisticated military-style pt boat and every word that comes out of his mouth is awash in comical flippancy .  finally , in the cargo hold , we see those that hired him .  they are also mercenaries that have tough-looking haircuts , talk with accents , and try to show how macho they are .  during their trip across the stormy sea , their boat suffers an incident and requires repairs .  spotting a cruise ship in the distance , they make their way to the ocean liner and devise a plan to raid the machine shop , take the parts that they need , and then continue on their merry way .  little do they know that this cruise ship has become infested by some kind of ocean monster .  yet , they board the ship armed to the hilt with grenades and machine guns that can kill dozens in a matter of seconds .  this is nothing more than a by-the-book action film .  their realization of the situation that they're in doesn't happen until they are in the bowels of the boat .  those who are dumb enough to stray off on their own will ultimately get killed .  the corridors on the ship are narrow , misty , and provide the kind of atmosphere that all scare-fests must have .  yet , despite the predictable nature of this film , there are some scary " boo " moments .  but most of it is just outright silly .  and this film is unusually gory too .  monsters basically suck off the flesh and spit out skeletal remains .  there is one particularly neat scene where a monster has been cut apart and reveals a victim that is still alive .  he screams horribly as the monster's digestive juices continue to slowly eat him away .  additionally , it borrows heavily from speed2 , alien and a bunch of other recent films .  the mercenaries even run into a lone , surviving passenger ( femke jannsen ) who looks amazingly like sandra bullock .  to be honest , when i left the theatre , i just had to laugh at how witless the film was .  it's moronic fun at best .  so , if you're hankering for a large bucket of popcorn served with a side of silliness , then this might just hit the spot . 
pos@ john cusack is the kind of actor who seems to effortlessly slide into his respective film roles .  so effortlessly that people tend to forget he's there , much in the way people rarely recall many of the great character actors ( anyone who can put the name james rebhorn with that actor's face is invited to treat themselves to a product from one of my sponsors ) .  example : the other day my mother asked me ( the expert , of course ) if there were any movies out worth seeing , never mind that our tastes couldn't be more divergent--- i'll never forget the day she recommended that i go see a night at the roxbury for god sakes , and to be fair she was mightily pissed at me for telling her that go !  was a lot of fun ( which it is ) , so i didn't see this as anything more than a futile attempt at conversation .  i muttered , with a little trepidation , that she might enjoy high fidelity .  she responded with her usual query , " whose in that one ? "  this is a question whose answer that seems to immediately conjure up the kind of movie you went to see .  if the reply is julia roberts you probably assume it was something wispy and light , a sylvester stallone movie and you picture a bloodbath with few words and much involuntary bicep flexing , and a woody allen movie means hyper articulate white people ( usually of the jewish faith ) fretting about in some upper east side palace .  anyway , when i answered " john cusack " , she replied with a rather stunned " who ? " , as if it was unreasonable for her to know whom i was referring to .  now i know for a fact that my mother has seen several cusack movies , most recently being john malkovich and pushing tin , but i suppose it's understandable that she would not recognize the name , after all , for most , names are tougher than faces .  i showed her a picture of cusack's mug in the paper hoping for an " oh - him , yes he's quite good " instead i got a " no - i don't know him " .  at this point i was way beyond frustration into a realm of nose hair yanking anger ( yes , filmic ignorance is all it takes to get me into the nose hair pulling zone ) , till i realized something : i doubt that much of america would recognize cusack's relatively bland visage , or even the name which is rather bland compared to the coolness of a brad pitt or tom cruise , one-syllable names that glide off the tongue with the velocity of a speeding car .  cu-sack . cu-sack - no , not quite as cool .  i'm sure that twenty years from now cusack will forever be referred to as " the guy from ( add in the cusack film of your choice ) " .  he's not a brand name , and his movies usually aren't big moneymakers , but in his own unassuming way he's kind of a genius .  with his pleasant , common man looks , and charming semi-articulate blatherings he has become one of the most likeable romantic leading men of the 90's .  from the sure thing to say anything cusack has merged the talents of early tom hanks and early jack lemmon .  despite the fact that nearly every character he plays is a variation of the character before it ( the schlumpy every man ) , he's a constantly enjoyable screen persona , like albert brooks or woody allen .  and he knows how to chose scripts , while the stephan baldwin's and val kilmer's seem to put them selves in everything ( the former actually had the insight to follow up oscar winner usual suspects with a pauly shore vehicle , and judging from his latest projects it looks like he still has yet to fire his agent ) , cusack generally picks rewarding projects ( save for the unwatchable hot pursuit , a 1988 film also featuring a young ben stiller ) .  high fidelity is his second collaboration with hit or miss english director stephan fears ( the grifters , the hi-lo country ) , and it's a hit .  it was also co-written by cusack , and some of his collaborators on the terrific comedy , grosse point blank .  it's not quite as entertaining or as funny as that film , but as it progresses in its meandering fashion , the movie cast something of a spell over me .  high fidelity begins as a hipster ode to the non-committal rob , a vinyl record store owner , who opens the film by breaking down the fourth wall with much abandon and educating us in his " top 5 break ups list " .  this is something cusack does the entire film a la ferris bueller's day off .  at first the talking-directly-into-the-camera-schtick had me vaguely annoyed , mostly because it reminded me so much of the film body shots which used a similar conceit , but it began to grow on me due almost entirely to cusack's witty delivery .  he's the kind of guy we don't mind talking directly to us .  gradually the film settles into a shampoo-like tragi-comic character study , of a guy who must confront himself and his personal failures in order to figure out the true person he is ( yes it's all very existential ) .  though that plot-line is mostly enjoyable , the thing i liked the most about the film is how much pleasure it offers in introducing us to minor characters , all of whom ( now this is really something ) are terrific enough to warrant their own films .  the best of which is jack black ( of the very funny show tenacious d , a program that sadly went the way of bruce willis' hair ? ? ? unfortunately that annoying smirk remains ) , an ardent record store employee who bullies customers into buying exactly what he wants them to buy .  he's the kind of guy i'm sure we've all met before , a blowhard who thinks he's always right and will do anything in his power ( be it yell , argue , insult ) to hoist his opinion onto others .  but i like this guy , because of how black plays him .  the actor is portly with a round baby face and crazy eyes , but despite his size he leaps to and fro like a manic speed freak ( which might be a bit of a redundant description , seeing as how all the speed freaks i know are manic ) .  he's the kind of supporting character who would be impossibly annoying comic relief in most other films .   ( look at what that hack jan de bont did to poor phillip seymour hoffman in twister ) .  but fears and black never let that happen .  the character , for all his shucking and jiving is steeped in reality .  he's over the top , but in a way we can all probably relate to .  catherine zeta-jones , in her brief role , gives a vivid portrayal of a women completely enamored with her own " charm " .  tim robbins registers in an even tinier part as a new age-type , a character played entirely for cartoon yuks , but still manages to work its desired comic effect .  the one exception in the acting department is a bit of a doozy , the main love interest played by danish actress iben hjejle ( mifune ) , who completely obliterates any trace of a danish accent , replacing it with a stilted american phonation .  i give her kudos for attempting such a contradictory role , but instead of being likeable , she comes across as rather robotic , and as such it's hard to see why cusack's character would be so obsessed with her especially when he has a beautiful , intelligent writer ( natasha gregson wagner ) potentially waiting in the wings .  this reminded me of say anything , where the charming cusack was paired with the charmless ione skye , and in midnight in the garden of good and evil where the poor bastard had to put up with alison eastwood ( whose unbelievably more wooden then father , clint for those " special people " whose wheels turn a little slower ) .  in fact cusack is rarely paired up with a personality that matches his , though i'd bet that if laura and natasha switched roles , the result would be more effective .  high fidelity works almost entirely on the strength of its characters and performances .  fears' direction is somewhat stilted , and the script is sometimes a little too ( and this is a word i'm beginning to hate to use but alas i must ) quirky for its own good ( i think i'll blame that on scott rosenberg , who judging from what he did with beautiful girls , con air , and things to do in denver while your dead , has his fingerprints all over the most irritating bits of this movie ) .  but cusack really does deserve an award , for being so damn ? ? ? cusackian .  i'm afraid that his talents are so understated that he may have to wait till his hip needs replacing to be offered such an award worthy of his considerable talent .  his character , rob ( whose sort of like an older , more bitter lloyd from say anything ) is funny and tragic without being pathetic , and that cusack can do all this , and still not imprint himself onto the minds of most audiences , is something of an achievement . 
neg@ i'm really starting to wonder about alicia silverstone .  sure , she is one of the most beautiful creatures on god's green earth ( second only to that movie critic at large guy ) , but when it comes to choosing what movies she stars in , she always strikes out .  the crush was a slow-moving , predictable piece of fluff .  hideaway was a horrific novel adaptation alicia had only a minor role in .  clueless was an annoying , unfunny waste of time .  and people have e-mailed me too , saying clueless is a good movie and that i'm the only one who doesn't like it .  one girl said if i'd seen the movie with " an open mind , " i would have enjoyed it .  nothing could be further from the truth .  i went into the theater expecting to love the movie .  the preview looked good and of course i'm crazymadinlove with alicia , but the movie was a bunch of bad jokes coming from whiny , unlikable characters .  almost everyone i saw the movie with felt the same way .  when we were walking out of the theater , one guy ( and it wasn't me ) yelled out , " that was the worst f$&#in' movie i've ever seen " and the rest of us had to laugh in agreement .  so last night i walked into the video store and saw alicia's pretty face on the cover of some made-for-video thriller called the babysitter .  i knew it would be bad but some inner compulsion i'll probably never understand made me rent it anyway .  what i got was 90 minutes of regret--the worst alicia silverstone movie ever .  and you already know from the last paragraph what the competition is like .  where to begin in criticizing this movie ?  the plot is a thin shred that moves slower than a glacier , the writing could have been done ( and for all we know it was ) by a ten year old , alicia is the star and she's still wasted in a movie that has no appeal whatsoever .  there is zero humor , zero suspense , zero drama and zero action , until the last ten minutes , when the story is needlessly and pointlessly concluded with a violent sequence .  zero plus zero plus zero plus zero equals zero .  so why does this movie get one star out of me ?  well , alicia spends twenty minutes of the movie in the bathtub .  and if it wasn't bubble bath , the babysitter would have instantly joined the ranks of our other four- star features , but you settle for what you can get .  alicia plays a babysitter who's spending friday night looking after two kids whose parents are out getting drunk at a cocktail party .  and of course anyone as beautiful as alicia automatically spends their friday nights at home ( at least that movie critic at large guy does ) .  as the movie trods along , we discover she's not only the mostly-silent star of the movie but also the object of every male character's fantasies ( and probably every male viewer's too ) .  the drunken father thinks she's just the thing to recapture his lost youth , her boyfriend lets his imagination run wild while spying on alicia from outside , even the prepubescent boy looks in on alicia through the bathroom keyhole while she's taking her bubble bath .  they even throw in the middle aged wife's fantasies about a male counterpart at the party .  not that any of us asked or ever even thought about seeing this 200+ pound woman in a black silk teddy .  at least none of the sex fanatasies ever leave the realm of the pg-rated .  in fact , i could imagine the babysitter becoming a cinemax late-night staple if not for the fact that there's absolutely no nudity in it .  so you can't call it a sex flick .  i've already pointed out that it can't fall under drama , comedy , thriller or action , so what do you classify the babysitter as ?  bad . 
pos@ upon taking a seat at the theater , and surveying the crowd , i soon realized that i was the only person under forty in the premises .  i'm twenty-two , but have been accused of looking sixteen .  yet as the film began , any consciousness of setting shifted to the home of five close-knit , yet troubled sisters .  director pat o'connor ( inventing the abbots , circle of friends ) weaves a quiet yet affecting tale of loss , need , and the bonds between five sisters .  the family is ruled by kate ( meryl streep ) , an unconsciously strict schoolteacher , who is completely conscious of the deterioration of her family .  there is very little background given to the viewer , as we are thrust into a tense but loving home .  squabbles take place one after the other , caused by years and years of history .  perhaps one of the best things about this film , is its naturalness .  no situation is over-wrought , and characters react as real people do , to real problems .  this probably is a result of the film being from a stage play .  the play was in turn is based on a time in the life of the playwright .  what seems to be an underlying theme are the pagan rituals and dances of peoples , both in lughnasa and africa .  in fact , dance seems to be the glue that holds the family together and most expressively shows their closeness .  legs tap , and bodies sway even in the midst of impending disaster .  only after the music stops , and the characters stand breathing heavily do we sense any trouble .  in the quiet after the music we muse that it's sad that music has to cease , and families falter .  the movie is framed by a scene of michael mundy , the narrator of the movie , as a young child flying a kite .  he trips over a bump and loses hold of his string , and the kite floats off farther into the distance .  drawn on the white diamond of the kite is a face that looks at once pained , and at another glance mischievous .  the mundy family itself follows a similar fate to that of the kite , and kate's hold of the family isn't strong enough to hold off the winds of change .  as michael stands , staring at his kite fly away , we hear the adult michael , looking back at the season that his world changed forever .  the movie is not overpowering , but it gives us a beautiful window into the life , love , and trouble of a household of lonely women .  note : this is the first movie review i've ever written , any responses on it would be greatly appreciated .   : ) 
neg@ 'bicentennial man' is a family film without any external motive with the exception of providing the minimum dose of entertainment .  chris columbus , the director who gave you " mrs . doubtfire " , plays on sentimental strings and mushy dialogue to make his point .  based on the short story by isaac asimov , it is supposed to be a science fiction story about a robot who wants to be human , which as you can imagine is very difficult .  starting in a not too distant future the film concentrates on a wealthy family that buys an android to help them with the house and children .  soon this robot , called andrew ( robin williams ) shows abilities that makes his owner mr . martin ( sam neill ) very curious .  andrew is interested in art and music , he " enjoys " making clocks , which clearly shows that he has genuine emotions .  it shows out that because of a small failure in the " electrical circuits " and " positronic brain " andrew has accidentally gained a soul .  this makes him unique and his evil creators worried .  then mr . martin decides to teach andrew all the things he wasn't programmed to do .  soon andrew wants to leave the house in pursuit of freedom , destiny and love .  this film can be described as a disney version of blade runner , a film that still shines as the biggest gem in the crown of science fiction .  ever since that film , the subject of humanity still stands as one big controversy .  what makes us human ?  the thoughts ?  the emotions ?  is it possible to become human ?  at what point can we say to a robot " now you are one of us " ?  these are very tough questions that require a serious and thurral approach .  it is obvious that columbus didn't take them very seriously .  when you think about it , this film is not really meditating on the question " when is a robot no longer a machine , but a human being ? " , but tells a story about racial discrimination and lack of understanding .  andrew is so complex and emotional from the very beginning that the audience immediately accepts him as a human being , and only the society has troubles with it .  in other words , it is as far from reality as from the academy awards .  further more , there are other annoying problems .  to this day no serious filmmaker has dared to speculate about the future in more than 50 years from now .  this has not been done for obvious reasons , because the filmmakers are well aware of the fact that they lack the knowledge and imagination to perform such a difficult task .  columbus is the first to have crossed that line .  the result is , as you might imagine , primitive , unrealistic and incredibly disappointing effort .  the world is simply frozen in time .  neither the society , fashion , culture or values have changed over 200 years .  mom is still working at the kitchen , doing the dishes .  when you think back to the late 17th century and then compare it to the world we live in today , you'll see a slightly bigger difference .  i am not saying that everything should change .  it is unlikely that the human rights will change , but it's even more unlikely that there will not be any progress in science , technology and fashion .  i suppose it's possible to watch this as a some sort of bizarre fairytale , but it's really hard .  robin williams is hidden behind c and speaking in a robotic way .  as always he does a decent job , as does sam neill .  but it doesn't really matter .  it is the sentimentality and length that turns this picture into a tiresome experience .  pretty much like last year's " meet joe black " , this is a primitive and unresolved story which is presented with a splendor and professionalism that it doesn't deserve .  great actors and a talented crew have worked hard to achieve something that will be instantly forgotten .  when isaac asimov wrote this story , the future seemed far away and magical .  everything seemed possible .  now is the future of asimov's time , and we know that it is not as magical and perfect as it seemed a long time ago .  for the same reasons that the young generation of today can not be amazed by julius verne's " 20 000 leagues under the sea " , so can't we accept this story as a potential reality .  let us hope that next year's " a . i . "  will be more rewarding . 
pos@ aliens ! ! well , that is what this movie is about .  computer generated aliens .  ok , the movie is not just about computer generated aliens .  it's about computer generated aliens and a secret organization known as mib .  if one wasn't green and running around the other would not exist as it's known .  the computer graphics in this movie are spectacular , they make you want to believe that aliens like the ones depicted exits .  since seeing this movie i have to agree concede that denis rodman is an alien , he simply has to be .  well , in all seriousness the aliens created here are not only of the monster variety but are also of the soft , squishy and cuddly kind .  just adds something of a lighter note to the movie where it could have become very dark .  along with aliens comes the humor and in a pretty decent way .  j , well soon to be j , a smart ass cop ( played by will smith ) runs down what he thinks is a would-be villain and gets some attention from the mib and k in particular .  k aims to recruit our poor j , but that is not the whole point of this movie .  the main duty of the mib is to police the extra terrestrials on earth who have chosen it as a home or a refuge .  that's also the main point of this movie : protect the earth from the scum of the galaxy .  some of the scum from space is awfully bad and just down right nasty .  color commentary abounds when forced to deal with alien scum and none other than will smith and tommy lee jones are there to deliver the punch .  the dialogue is witty to say the least .  this wittiness lets the movie flow well from scene to scene developing the characters to the extent needed for this movie .  tommy lee jones ( as k ) and will smith ( as j ) provide both the action and the comedy beautifully .  the characters they play don't seem to be wrong in any way nor does their performance as them .  i would have to say that k is more amusing than j , but what's one without the other .  both roles complemented each other very well and the script seemed to be written for these two actors .  the story also goes deep enough to provide a proper background so the audience is not totally clueless .  altogether good performances were put in by all the cast and the director blended everything marvelously with the necessary special effects to create a good movie .  a movie well worth seeing if you are up for some lighthearted and witty humor .  as most movies have their good things they also have their bad things .  the character development in this movie was not all that grand because it didn't need to be .  but if there was more character development and if there was some development of the alien characters that might have added quite considerable to the movie .  especially the evil alien , he did need some work .  though this could have been worked on , the movie was what it proposed to be a rather shallow and witty comedy .  that was achieved rather well , with some interesting commentary and observations .  a movie worth a view , but keep in mind what the movie is and if you are not fond of will smith's form of humor then i wouldn't go .  originally written after original release .  totally rewritten december 26 , 1997 
neg@ blatantly borrowing elements from 1993's " like water for chocolate " and 1991's " the butcher's wife , " " simply irresistible " attempts to be a whimsical romantic comedy but , more often than not , comes off as laughable , leaving you to wonder why rising star sarah michelle gellar ( t . v . 's " buffy , the vampire slayer " ) would choose such an obviously inept film project to waste her time on .  things get off to a bad start right from the onset as amanda ( sarah michelle gellar ) , a young woman who runs her late family's struggling new york restaurant , runs into a mystery man who forces a bushel of crabs on her and then vansihes into thin air .  while out shopping , she also meets tom ( sean patrick flanery ) , a charming , handsome man , who happens to be planning a ritzy restaurant for the department store he works for , and later when he decides to drop by her dive , called southern cross , for lunch , she somehow makes a delicious crab dish for him , even though she is known to not be a very good chef .  suddenly , amanda finds her restaurant , on the edge of foreclosure , rejuvenate to life as customer begin to swarm for her food , which strangely causes everyone immediate jubilation when it hits their mouths .  are amanda and tom destined to be together ?  and is it not just because of the magical food , but because they really , truly like each other ?  and what exactly is going on with the food she is making ?  does it have anything to do with that pesky crab she got that sits on the shelf in the kitchen somehow assisting her in her food preparation ?   " simply irresistible " is a ridiculous and just plain goofy romantic fantasy that's as flimsy as a slice of bologna .  it takes one joke---that people who eat the food are taken aback by it in most unusual ways---and recycles it over and over again until the film has reached an appropriate running time of 95 minutes .  add in a music montage every ten minutes ( these are actually the best scenes in the movie , which certainly tells you something about the film itself ) , and what you've got is an utterly empty , if not necessarily boring , excursion .  the cast of " simply irresistible " is fairly good , but it is the supporting characters who are the most interesting .  patricia clarkson ( 1998's " high art , " in which she played a drugged-out lesbian ) is a standout as tom's colleague , and is thankfully given a few funny lines of dialogue .  also of note is larry gilliard jr . , as amanda's cooking assistant and buddy , who is allowed to create a seemingly full character out of only a handful of scenes .  of the main stars , sarah michelle gellar is fine , but really does often look like she's struggling through the unmistakably clumsy material , and if sean patrick flanery plans on keeping a film career in the future , he has certainly got to pick better projects than this .  the bottom line is that " simply irresistible " is the exact opposite of its deprophesized title , and when the movie got to the point where the characters began to float in mid-air ( an unamusing plot device that was repeated in the stupid last scene ) , my mind checked out from the characters and the romance .  when i think about it in hindsight , i should have checked out in the very first scene , where the point of the action was for gellar to crawl under tables looking for a runaway mechanical crab .  now , that certainly is what i'd call magical ! 
pos@ [note that followups are directed to rec . arts . movies . current-films and rec . arts . movies . startrek . current  only , not to rec . arts . sf . movies .  -moderator]  star trek : first contact a film review by michael dequina copyright 1996 michael dequina  star trek : first contact ( pg-13 ) anyone familiar with the series of star trek movies knows of the " even-odd pattern " --the even-numbered installments of the series are good while the odd-numbered ones are , well , not-so-good .  the pattern continues with the new star trek : first contact , an energetic sci-fi adventure that ( coincidentally ? ) is the eighth entry in the hugely popular series .  in this first trek feature to feature only cast members from the late star trek : the next generation television series , captain jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) and the rest of the 24th-century crew of the starship enterprise--commander will riker ( jonathan frakes , who also directed ) , android lt . cmdr .  data ( brent spiner ) , lt . cmdr .  geordi laforge ( levar burton ) , lt . cmdr .  worf ( michael dorn ) , dr . beverly crusher ( gates mcfadden ) , and counselor deanna troi ( marina sirtis ) --travel back to 21st-century earth while doing battle with the borg , a race of cybernetic beings that share a collective mind with the borg queen ( alice krige ) .  the borg intend to alter history and assimilate all of humankind into their race--starting with the earth-orbiting crew of the enterprise and a 21st century stowaway ( alfre woodard ) .  this is an interesting plotline that is sure to mesmerize trekkers everywhere and engage everyone else , but , unfortunately , it only makes up the star trek half of the script by brannon braga and ronald d . moore .  the other half of the title--first contact--refers to a subplot that takes place on 21st-century earth , where riker , troi , and laforge meet legendary scientist zephram cochran ( james cromwell ) , who is about to embark on the first warp speed flight in human history , which directly leads to the first contact with extraterrestrials .  while this story does tie into the main plot and pays off interestingly in the end , it is nowhere near as involving or exciting as the borg battles on the enterprise .  not helping matters is the tiresome cochran character , an eccentric whose drunken schtick starts out funny but becomes too one-note after a while .  in the end , though , the first contact subplot doesn't detract from the enjoyment of the film as a whole .  the story is typical sci-fi fantasy , but the conviction of the cast--most notably the always-phenomenal stewart--makes you believe and care .  frakes , making his feature directorial debut , keeps the action swiftly rolling along and delivers the action goods , even upping the violence a notch ( this is the first trek film to bear a pg-13 rating ) to greater effect .  st : fc has a bigger budget than the last trek outing , the middling star trek generations , and it definitely shows on screen--the production design and especially visual and makeup effects are outstanding ( in particular those involving the borg queen ) .  braga and moore's mostly sharp script will please both trek devotees and the rest ; the references to the borg storyline in the tv series , the continuity with the previous film ( e . g .  the ongoing saga of data's emotion chip ) , and a fleeting star trek : voyager crossover will make trekkers squeal with delight , but such points are made easily accessible to those less familiar to the trek mythos .  paramount was reportedly worried about the staying power of its trek franchise with the next generation cast now carrying the helm .  based on the entertaining success that is star trek : first contact , i'd say the studio has nothing to worry about ( at least not until this cast retires and the crew of the wan star trek : deep space nine takes over . . . ) . 
neg@ _dirty_work_ has a premise of deliciously mean-spirited potential .  mitch weaver ( norm macdonald ) and his lifelong best friend sam mckenna ( artie lange ) are losers in life : they were constantly picked on in school , and now they cannot hold regular jobs .  but as the trailer goes , " there is one thing mitch weaver is good at--revenge . "  so he and sam parlay their unmatched skill in getting-even schemes into a marketable revenge-for-hire business called dirty work inc .  this should be the groundwork for a wonderfully wicked black comedy , but for a film called _dirty_work_ , what ensues is rather clean of spirit .  in fact , what makes mitch and sam start up their business is not a giddy desire to give bullies a taste of their own medicine , but rather a more sappy reason : sam's father ( jack warden ) needs a heart transplant , and in order for him to move at the top of the recipient list , his compulsively betting doctor ( chevy chase ) asks the guys for $50 , 000 to pay off his bookie .  so for all the scheming that goes on , beneath every underhanded plot is--gasp ! --a  heart , which undercuts the inherent nastiness of the premise .  not that there isn't a lot of nastiness on display--there is , but of a different sort .  there are frequent sexual references , most prominently in the form of prostitutes and sam's impotent father's ongoing lust for them .  and for a film rated pg-13 , director bob saget ( yes , that bob saget , of _full_house_ and _america's_funniest_home_videos_ fame ) and writers frank sebastiano , fred wolf , and macdonald himself , stretch the boundaries of good taste rather far--arguably a bit too much so ( was not one , but two separate instances of sodomy between animals really necessary ? ) .  but the issue , of course , is not so much of taste as it is humor--as in , is it funny or not ?  the answer is a resounding no .  it's not that macdonald isn't a funny guy .  he was one of the more consistently funny performers on _saturday_night_live_ before his much-talked-about firing , and his dry brand of smartass wit translates well to the big screen ; it also doesn't hurt that he's a natural , likable screen presence .  he is able to give some of his lines a nice acid touch , but , for the most part , the oneliners , as written , are flat , and the broad slapstick gags just don't work ( one running gag has him being literally tossed out of buildings--a real riot ) .  still , macdonald's few shining moments are just about the only moments the film has .  the late chris farley , as hysterical as he ever was , is amusing in a cameo role , but , as a whole , the supporting players are amateurish and seemingly free from any directorial guidance .  saget tries to juice up the proceedings with kitschy cameos by gary coleman , adam sandler , and john goodman , but their minimal novelty value cannot prevent _dirty_work_ from sputtering to the end of its brief 81-minute running time .  the film closes on a sad note of desperation , an indulgent reel of outtakes from which only those involved in the production would derive any amusement .  come to think of it , i cannot imagine anyone but those involved in the production to find much amusement in the entirety of _dirty_work_ . 
pos@ roberto benigni is a clown in the tradition of chaplin and keaton .  this italian film star , best known in the united states for the poorly received son of the pink panther , has done the near impossible by creating a comic fable about the holocaust .  but benigni's life is beautiful ( la vita e bella ) is not so much a story of the holocaust as it uses that monstrous outrage against humanity as a backdrop to tell a story of familial love , devotion and sacrifice .  the movie starts out as a typical slapstick farce with benigni's guido arriving in the small tuscan town of arezzo in 1938 to fulfill his dream of owning a bookstore .  like many of the slapstick clowns who preceded him , most notably the almost-forgotten harry langdon , benigni's guido has a childlike innocence .  he ignores the growing anti-semitism of the fascist government .  instead , guido ardently falls in love and persues dora , a local school teacher who already is engaged to a local fascist official .  in benigni's tightly wound script this is the same fascist official with whom guido had an earlier unfortunate - yet slapstick - encounter .  guido wins dora .  they marry .  fast forward about five years .  guido , dora , and their 5-year-old son , giosue ? ( giorgio cantarini ) are a happy family .  guido has finally fulfilled his dream of opening a bookstore .  but racial and anti-semitic tensions are on the rise in italy , and guido has determined to do his best to shield his son from these harsh realities .  the task becomes even the more difficult when the family is deported to a concentration camp .  here , guido must use all his skill and imagination not only to shield his son , but to keep him from being exterminated .  it is at this juncture in life is beautiful may tend to offend those whom the holocaust has touched .  for the scenes in the concentration camp lack the horror , the pain , the unimaginable suffering of a schindler's list .  true , many italian jews were not deported until the war was nearly over , and most were not sent to the death camps , but to work camps where they were used as slave labor .  unlike steven spielberg , benigni is not out to tell the story of the holocaust .  his story is about family and the lengths a parent will go to protect a child .  for guido , to save his son , transforms the entire experience into an elaborate game .  giosue ? must follow the rules without question to amass 1 , 000 points .  the winner takes home a tank .  therefore , guido tells him , he must remain hidden in the barracks .  he cannot make a sound nor allow the guards to see him .  guido explains this during a hilarious sequence when a german guard barks the camp instructions to the newly arrived inmates .  guido , lying that he understands german and can translate for his fellow prisoners , instead lays down the rules for his son to allow him a chance to survive .  throughout their imprisonment , guido's quick thinking continually keeps his son from harm's way .  ultimately , the allies rescue the camp .  in a poignant scene , giosue ? comes out of hiding just as an american tank rolls into the compound .  the boy goes wide-eyed with wonderment and delight , thinking he has won the game .  the price for his victory is most high .  benigni has succeeded in using the blackest moment in human history to prove that even in hell , a ray of hope and salvation can penetrate the darkness .  life is beautiful is a fantasy , a fable .  it is not to be taken as a record of the holocaust .  those who object to it are missing its point .  and that is simply where there is hope , where there is life and where there is love , the spark of humanity will never be extinguished .  committed to lifelong learning through effective communication 
neg@ whether or not i would be considered a trekker probably depends on whom you would ask .  i have been a fan of both the original series and its recently retired follow-up , as well as the even- numbered entries in the film series .  however , i have never been one of those folks who store away trek minutiae and get into debates over the relative merits of spock vs . data .  somewhere along the line , the " star trek " film series began to seem more and more directed at those in the latter category , and star trek : generations may be the natural conclusion of this direction .  its production values may be high , but the writing is frequently appalling , and instead of a script has a collection of references , in-jokes and ill-defined characters .  generations opens in the late 23rd century , where members of the original enterprise crew , including captain james t . kirk ( william shatner ) , are present for the christening of the latest ship to bear that name .  no sooner is it out on its maiden voyage than a distress signal brings them to the nexus , a mysterious ribbon of energy .  among those rescued from the nexus is long-lived alien dr . soran ( malcolm mcdowell ) , but he is none-too-pleased at being back in the real world .  seventy-eight years later , soran is still trying to get back to the nexus , and again encounters an enterprise , this one led by captain jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) .  soran's plan involves destroying a star with an inhabited planet , and the only hope for saving 230 million people is the historic meeting of two enterprise captains .  i don't think it is an insult to fans of " star trek " to suggest that to a certain extent , the particulars of a plot are not really the most important elements in a " trek " film .  it's about a chance to visit with old friends , and if they are involved in a truly interesting story it can be considered gravy .  but even that interpretation assumes that characterization has to be consistent , and in generations that just doesn't happen .  data ( brent spiner ) is particularly victimized by this sloppy writing .  in the film's major sub-plot , data decides to use a chip which will give him human emotions , a chip he has had in his possession for over a year .  what is his motivation for taking this drastic and perhaps dangerous step ?  he doesn't get a joke .  once the chip is in place , spiner gets to have a lot of fun with data's new emotions , but the point is that he's no longer the data we know .  if the rest of the " next generation " cast fares any better , it's only because they're on the screen so little that they're simply window dressing .  but then again , this story isn't really about the new crew .  it's about kirk and picard , the cowboy and the politician , sharing the screen .  the huge surprise is that william shatner blows patrick stewart away .  perhaps because he knows this is his last go-round in the part that made him a legend , shatner looks like he's having the time of his life ; stewart , on the other hand , borders on the deferrential , and is saddled with the same lackluster motivations as everyone else in the cast .  stewart's edginess is indicative of what may be a very bad sign for paramount's hopes to turn the new cast into the same kind of franchise the original cast was : these are clearly the not ready for big screen players .  by contrast , the prologue which features scotty ( james doohan ) and chekhov ( walter koenig ) is the highlight of the film .  these characters have become part of the popular mythology , and when they take over the enterprise in a moment of distress , it's a moment of high energy .  only thirty years of history can create a moment like that , and that's time this new crew doesn't have .  it certainly doesn't help that the plot they are stuck in is so convoluted and badly constructed that you need to leave a trail of bread crumbs to find your way out again .  it's also loaded with little gags all aimed at those who are familiar enough with the series to turn to all their friends in a shared nudge of recognition .  i wonder whether anyone who is coming in cold to the " trek " universe at this point would be anything but baffled and bored by what is going on .  and what a waste of malcolm mcdowell , who could have been a great monomanical villain but should have been given a much more compelling reason for his obsession .  there are plenty of details both scientific and of continuity to pick at , but to do so would be to ignore generations' major flaws .  however , i would like to make one recommendation : seatbelts .  not just for the enterprise crew , although you'd think by the 24th century space travel wouldn't involve rolling around on the floor during a battle .  no , i think the audience might need them more .  this journey is one bumpy ride . 
pos@ one of the sweetest tales to ever be made , it's a wonderful life isn't perfect , but its good natured charm and beautiful performances light up the screen with glorious results .  probably the greatest " feel-good " film of all time , it's a wonderful life aims for the heart , and strikes with a golden arrow .  on christmas eve , george bailey ( stewart ) is being prayed for by many in the small town of bedford falls .  you see , george is in trouble , and he has always helped others who needed it .  this one time , however , god answers his prayers , and sends down the lovable guardian angel clarence ( travers ) to try and save george .  clarence has got his own problems , however .  clarence is an angel without his wings , and each time the bell rings , the wings pass him by .  the bailey case is a way for him to earn those magical wings and become a true angel .  but before clarence can save george , he first has to go through a cliffs notes version of george bailey's life .  we see george sacrificing his hearing to save his brother's life , sacrificing his college education to save the family business , sacrificing his dream of living far away to support his brother , and even sacrificing his life to make sure his brother is happy working somewhere else .  when the bank his family owns is in trouble , george gives away his honeymoon money to make sure the bank isn't sold to the evil mr . potter ( barrymore ) , who wants nothing less than to get the baileys out of bedford falls .  one christmas , potter gets his chance .  uncle billy bailey ( mitchell ) loses $8 , 000 of the bank's money .  without the money , the bank must close down .  george is stuck in a tremendous bind , and contemplates suicide .  clarence , the faithful servant , is there just to pick him up , and to show him what bedford would be like without george .  this is all a lead-in to the very famous last scene , where george finally sees what true happiness is about .  it's a wonderful life does have its faults .  the movie is beginning to feel dated in the details , especially in the treatment of women and men .  the sex roles in the film are weirdly out of place in the 90's , like something out of a revisionist look .  all the men drink too much and slap their wives too much during some portions of the film .  there are , however , endearing moments in all of this .  capra puts in just enough humor mocking the sex roles of the 50's to make the movie remarkably enjoyable .  the story is hackneyed , and the ending feels , well , a little too sugarish .  there's this uneasy feeling of sugar over everything , especially the sequences where george is either in trouble , or helping somebody .  it's a little too nice for my liking , at times .  there is , however , enough humor , enough wit , and enough of jimmy stewart to get the movie through the middle part , which would be the most difficult .  but watching it's a wonderful life is never boring or difficult : it's always interesting , right until the finale , which , for all its sugar , makes delightful sense and is beautifully done .  capra does have his monumental cliches , but the actors relish them and overplay everything to perfection .  donna reed is perfect as the loving , obeidient wife , and lionel barrymore is gloriously grump as mr . potter .  everyone else is magnificent , including bert and ernie ( ward bond and frank faylen ) .  there is a general sense of goodness , as if everyone in the film knows that they are making a great film , and they relish that .  stewart , however , is the king of all of this .  he is sometimes awkward , especially when saying " merry christmas " to all objects , animate or inanimate .  but he is james stewart , and he's lovably delightful throughout the film .  have i complained ?  i shouldn't have .  this is a really good movie .  no , this is a great movie .  better yet , this is a phenomenal movie .  there is a reason classics are invented : to make sure that people will always have great movies to aid them in their quest for living life .  this is one of those films .  it is a " feel-good " movie , something people complain a little too much about .  but capra's reworking of " a christmas carol " is the greatest christmas movie of all time .  there , i've said it .  i have to admit , the first time i saw this , i saw it with my family , including my 11 year old kid sister .  they all loved it .  they loved george , his wife , his troubles , and the beautiful ending .  is it a little too sugar-coated ?  maybe .  no matter .  this is a film that should be watched time and time again , with families around a coffee table , and eggnog on the plate .  it is a film that just makes you feel good about life , family , and hope .  it is the perfect christmas film , flaws and all .  it is frank capra's greatest acheivement , and that really does say a lot .  for about 121 out of 129 minutes , this movie is flawless .  the rest can be excused : no film is perfectly flawless .  i can't get over how much i love this movie , and how much you will , after watching it , digesting it , and sitting with your family , appreciating how special life really is . 
neg@  " love to kill " starts off aimlessly and gets progressively less coherent as time passes .  at the outset , the movie appears to be about tony danza , who's an illegal distributor of guns , trying to establish a relationship with an unsuspecting woman .  danza sets up a double date with her , her sister , and a collegue of his .  everything seems to be going well , until the sister accidentally dies by falling down a set of stairs .  much confusion and mahem ensues , as the death is covered up and other associates of danza's begin to emerge , all after one thing or another .  sound confusing ?  it is .  i think what the filmmakers were trying to do is take the standard crime movie and throw in a little humour and levity .  in some respects , it works .  but the majority of the film is a convoluted and confusing mess .  characters keep popping up with no explanation , demanding money for deals that occur off-screen .  the only aspect of the movie that actually works is the budding relationship between danza and the dead woman's sister .  but so little time is devoted to this part of the story , we never really become too familiar with these characters , and because of this , we don't really care what happens to them .  well , i didn't , at least .  one thing i will give the movie is that it's a complete departure for tony danza .  here's a guy , because of his many sitcom roles , who's ingrained in the consciousness as a nice guy who always does the right thing .  here , he plays a man who's just looking out for himself , and if that means he needs to kill in order to save his own skin , so be it .  i was very impressed by his performance , and within minutes of the start of the film , i had forgotten all about his good-guy persona .  michael madsen is also good as an associate of danza's who spends half the movie buddying up to him and the other half trying to kill him .  like i said , it's not exactly a linear storyline .   " love to kill " should be praised for trying to do something different with the well worn crime genre , but it's just too bad that the story doesn't really add up to much .  the stars deserved better , and so did the audience . 
pos@ after the terminally bleak reservoir dogs and the brutally violent pulp fiction , jackie brown seems like something of a light-hearted departure for quentin tarantino .  it's more of a ho-hum heist story with characters that speak the tarantino language .  luckily , his showcase of actors convert every morsel of possible enjoyment onto the screen , and jackie brown has no trouble entertaining the average viewer .  the story introduces us to a street-wise black woman named jackie brown ( pam grier ) , a flight attendant who smuggles money and drugs from one destination to another .  she works for a bottom-of-the-barrel airline and receives a minimal salary .  but one day , she is picked up by a pair of federal officials ( including michael keaton as the tough-nosed ray nicolet ) , and found with a handsome load of cash and a small bag of smuggled dope .  jackie is working for a weapons dealer named ordell ( samuel l . jackson ) , who pays her bail money but suspects her of tipping off the feds about their operation .  soon jackie and ordell are plotting a way to smuggle $500 , 000 through to them under nicolet's nose , with the help of ordell's oaf of a partner ( robert de niro ) and drugged-out lady friend ( bridget fonda ) .  also entering the picture is a bail-bondsman named max cherry ( robert forster ) , who takes a liking to jackie and agrees at one point to make the situation even more complicated ( how i won't say ) .  the big drop-off is undoubtedly the high point of jackie brown , in which numerous double-crosses take place and many clothing store bags ( filled with cash ) switch hands .  it's unfortunate that tarantino takes his sweet time getting there , and doesn't offer anything extremely compelling while doing so .  there are , as always , amusing exchanges between characters .  the funniest repartee is between de niro and fonda , as he becomes annoyed with her constant bickering while making fun of his iq , or lack thereof .  the most interesting relationship is between max and jackie .  a 56-year old white bail bondsman and a 44-year old black flight attendant with believable chemistry ?  you've got to commend the acting .  jackie brown is a seriously dragged-out exercise enlivened by such fine acting .  the film clocks in at a lengthy 2 hours , 35 minutes .  tarantino's talky style manages to hold your attention heavily , but there are more than a few dramatic lapses and crucial lulls in the storyline .  also , fans of the director should be prepared for a lighter side to appear .  jackie brown has four major shootings , and two of those take place mostly off-screen , so don't be expecting a typical tarantino bloodbath .  you can expect frequent foul language , mostly coming way of ordell , who ( much to the dismay of spike lee ) uses the `n' word as part of his regular vocabulary .  the acting is the glue that holds everything together .  grier , making a sudden comeback from her reign in the 1970's , is more than adequate for the title character .  in fact , she's flat-out great .  another comeback comes from former tv star robert forster , who does a grand job as max cherry , and is perfectly cast in doing so .  michael keaton makes his presence felt , albeit in small but dignified moments , and de niro is ideal in playing the lug-head who goes over the edge .  speaking of that , bridget fonda has relatively little to do as ordell's bikini-clad beach babe , and yet she manages to look fairly occupied .  there's not a single sign of misplaced dialogue or snubbed line throughout the entire movie .  which is a life-saver for mr . tarantino .  the story barely holds together in the meantime , and we merely get a small tremor whenever there should be a defeaning earthquake .  but oh well .  jackie brown manages to be an enjoyable detour from quentin tarantino , even if it is lacking the glaring and original bite of his previous work .  let's just hope that the director hasn't gone soft on us . 
neg@ a movie like mortal kombat : annihilation works ( and must be reviewed on ) multiple levels .  first , there's the rampant usage of randian subtext that pervades the entire movie .  but occasionaly , almost as if making an ironic , self-depreciating remark , the movie tosses in clearly marxist imagery .  no no . . .  just kidding .  had you going there for a moment , didn't i ?  in all seriousness however , and to be fair to the movie , it * is * necessary to provide two viewpoints : that of a movie watcher unfamiliar ( or only marginally familiar ) with the whole mortal kombat phenomenon , and that of a fan of the first movie and/or a fan of the games .  the first movie ( mortal kombat ( 1995 ) ) concerned itself with a martial arts tournament that would decide the fate of earth ( and it's 5 billion inhabitants ) .  the mortals won , and in theory this should have prevented the emperor shao khan from taking over the earth .  unfortunately , shao khan was a poor loser , and the very final scene in mortal kombat showed him arriving anyway , ready to take over the planet , as our heroes assumed a fighting stance .  the first movie was extraordinarily entertaining for those ( like myself ) who are fans of the game .  i'd even go so far as to say that many folks who didn't know about the game probably enjoyed the movie .  the writers and directors knew the limitations of both their cast and of the basic story itself , and they didn't try to overachieve .  there were a lot of really cool fight scenes ( with really cool accompanying music ) , intersperesed with some distracting ( but ultimately non-intrusive ) bits of fluff passing itself off as a plot .  and , as we know , the movie was a smashing success at the box office .  mortal kombat : annihilation picks up precisely where that movie left off , with some introductory exposition to clue in those who may not have seen the first movie .  shao khan has decided that he's going to take over the earth * anyways * , and to hell with some silly rule about mortals winning the tournament .  thereafter follows approximately 85 minutes of film that alternates between being confused , being trite , being silly , and being just plain stupid .  one gets the general impression that the producers of the movie thought " hey , that last movie was such a success that we can get more money and make a * real * movie now . "  too bad they didn't simply stick with the formula from the first movie .  i could write volumes about the things that are wrong with this picture , but here are the high points :   * the acting is truly bad .  sandra hess ( playing the sonya blade character ) is particularly execrable , especially in scenes where she tries to convince us that she loved johnny cage ( a character from the first movie who gets greased at the beginning of this movie ) .   * in one of the worst pieces of mis-casting i think i've * ever * seen , james remar plays raiden , the god of thunder .  in the first movie , christopher lambert played raiden and played his character as though he was in on the joke : a french actor playing a japanese thunder god being revered by chinese mystics .  i generally like it when actors are cast against type ( tim " tiny " lister , jr . being cast as the president of the u . s . in the fifth element , for example ) , and remar has always been one of my favorite " utility " actors but he's so totally wrong for this part that he doesn't even have the luxury of amused self-awareness .   * there are too many characters that are introduced as being potentially important , but then never seen again .   * there are a number of completely meaningless story sidetracks , including a muddled scene where liu kang ( robin shou ) seeks out nightwolf ( litefoot ) , has a mystical hallucination , and then wanders off with jade ( irina pantaeva ) .  for these reasons ( and many others ) , i can only give the movie a 2 . . .   . . . unless you're a huge fan of the games and/or the first movie .  in that case , the following critiques also apply :   * sandra hess , while being an even worse actress than bridgette wilson ( who played sonya blade in the first movie ) , is much more convincing as a fighter .  wilson looked like she was simply mimicing some movements taught to her by the fight choreographer .  hess looks like she actually knows some martial arts , and puts together a much more believable fight scene .   * in the fights , each of the characters does at least * one * thing they do in the game ( and often more ) .  sonya does her " kiss of death , " jax does his " earthquake , " liu kang does his " animality , " and so on .  a big bonus for those of us who were looking for similar moves in the first movie and found them only rarely .   * there aren't as many fight scenes in this movie as there were in the first , because the folks making the movie mistakenly try to hang a more robust plot in between .  silly , silly folks .  and the lamest fight involved two of the women in what turns into a mud-wrestling match .  lame and so obviously sexist even i ( politically incorrect , for the most part ) noticed and remarked upon it .   * the special effects are generally better , except for the final fight scene between the emporer and liu kang in which both perform their " animalities . "  motaro and sheeva are both more convincing and lifelike than goro was in the first movie .  for folks like myself who loved the first movie and enjoy the games , i give this a 5 .  you'll probably like it , but not nearly as much as you liked the first one . 
pos@ `run lola run' , a german import that gained a stellar reputation at the sundance film festival , is a dazzling and kinetic film that deals with the subjects of fate and chance .  for a berserk and retroactive 81 minutes of non-stop movement , we follow a fiery-haired heroine named lola ( franka potente ) as she sprints to save her boyfriend from the clutches of drug dealers .  lola has roughly twenty minutes to somehow retrieve 100 , 000 marks in time to save manni ( moritz bleibtreu ) from being killed by the dealer .  but , in something of a pseudo- `groundhog day' approach , director tom tykwer gives lola three separate chances to best navigate her way toward the goal .  in these trio of episodes , we gradually learn the unique effects of fate , for even if tiny changes are made in lola's journey , the future can be seriously altered .  `run lola run' is an experience like `fight club' or `the matrix' , in that each film takes you through a super-charged wormhole of bending reality in surreal and exciting ways .  in addition , all three movies have a visual style that separates them from the rest of the pack .  `lola' is no exception , with stylish quick-flash camera work and cinematography that serves as scintillating eye candy from the get-go .  tykwer's world is a landscape of mood and color , with brilliant shades of red and pink ( including lola's fiery hair ) used as effective symbolism throughout .  with it's visual style and mind-blowing pace , `run lola run' is one of the more invigorating movies of the year .  even more so when considering the fact it's all stuffed rather nonchalantly into an 81-minute time period .  as a heroine , potente does little more than run wildly through the streets ( as the title suggests ) , but she has a certain flair and charisma .  her exemplary running form made me wonder if she is actually a track star .  meanwhile , bleibtreu does an equally fantastic job of bringing the dopey but passionate manni to life .  both actors perform beyond the call of duty .  the dazzling fun comes from predicting what each episode holds in store for lola , and the outcome is ultimately rewarding - several twists and turns are unique and unexpected .  the other characters lola runs into ( both purposely and inadvertently ) include her banker father ( herbert kraup ) and a friendly security guard ( armin rohde ) , but aside from the two leads , no one has more than a few minutes of screen time .  additional stars that couldn't possibly be ignored are cinematographer frank griebe and editor mathilde bonnefroy , who are both responsible for the film's eye-catching visual elegance .  `run lola run' is subtitled , so be prepared to meet the challenge of reading the lightning-fast dialogue - occasional sections of it are especially fast .  this is only one of the minor chores involved in watching .  the other is the sense that we never get to really recognize who the real people are in this hyperactive situation .  most are just chess pieces in tykwer's elaborate game of visual presentation , and he never really makes a significant move with any .  but , the average viewer is likely to be so absorbed in the action that few will realize the lack of potency in a few elements of the screenplay .  a few petty gripes aside , this film is a wild , exhilarating ride that turns maniacally on its wheel of originality .  most people believe foreign films are mainly boring , talky character studies .  perhaps `run lola run' will recharge their batteries .  not only does this film offer insight into some intriguing questions of fate and destiny , it also delivers a white-knuckle visual rollercoaster ride of overwhelming audacity .  like how the experience must have been for the persistent title character , `run lola run' is exhausting . 
neg@ a backdrop of new year's eve in 1981 would seem to lend itself to a great party movie .  the decor possibilities are endless - disco balls had yet to migrate into the dark corners of the attic , big hair was worth its weight in aquanet , and the louder the fashion , the better the look .  but despite this setting , these details and a soundtrack that includes some 40-plus irresistible hits from the early days of the me decade , something is inherently wrong with " 200 cigarettes . "  a better title for this nostalgic mess would be " 50 missed opportunities . "  what is it that makes this retro-comedy such a downer ?  it's certainly not the cast , which includes enough hot , young talent for several movies .  there's courtney love , cementing her reputation as a serious actress ; christina ricci , hot off her shoulda-been-nominated turn in " the opposite of sex " ; paul rudd , who gets even more appealing with every role ; kate hudson , inheriting some fine acting genes from mom goldie hawn ; and affleck brothers ben and casey , two of the best things about " good will hunting . "  perhaps the question is this : what drew these and other immensely talented actors to such a dreary project ?  maybe it looked good on paper .   " 200 cigarettes " is composed of a series of vignettes , as various characters make their way through new york's festively decorated east village to a holiday bash thrown by a jittery bundle of nerves named monica ( martha plimpton , all dressed up in her best cyndi lauper ) .  among the potential guests are likeable cad kevin ( rudd ) and his best friend lucy ( love ) , busy bickering over his recent break-up , and a clumsy but seemingly charming bartender ( ben affleck ) who opens his mouth only to spew forth bad pick-up lines .  more subplots - _many_ more - dot the big picture , but those listed above are the only ones worth noting in a positive light .  all the other story tangents are as frazzled as a cokehead trying to solve a rubick's cube .  ricci and gaby hoffman grate as two ronkonkoma gals ( the kind that have trouble pronouncing hard consonants ) out to have a high time in the big city .  infamously acerbic comedienne janeane garofalo is wasted in what amounts to a several-scene cameo .  hudson , as a pretty-in-pink klutz recently devirginized by a reprehensible ladies' man ( jay mohr ) , trips , pukes and gets smeared with dog poop .  are we laughing yet ?  the film boils down to a mixture of the good , the bad and the gaudy , with the latter two overtaking the former .  game performances - especially by love , rudd and plimpton - are almost shot down by the bizarrely colorful parts and a constantly roving focus , here a combination that mostly sputters when it should crackle .  too many sidetracks rate as uninteresting and have little payoff until a lengthy final montage where we find out many of the performers served as one night stands for each other .  if this is " 200 cigarettes , " then get me 200 nicotine patches . 
pos@ a thriller set in modern day seattle , that marked marky mark's migration from the " good vibrations " and " calvin klein undie ad " guy , to mark wahlberg , thespian-at-large , and a mighty good one at that .  plot : boy ( wahlberg ) meets girl ( witherspoon ) .  boy likes girl .  girl likes boy .  boy and girl begin dating .  parents of girl aren't crazy about the boy .  girl steps to boy's defense .  family problems occur .  girl learns more about the boy .  boy goes nuts .  fun ensues .  critique : ever wonder what would happen if your better half turned out to be someone other than the person that you had come to cherish and love ?  well , if you ever have , then this film is definitely for you .  it isn't the most original premise in the world , but it is handled pretty well here , and pretty quickly for that matter ( a speedy 90 minutes ) .  i think one of the main reasons this film worked for me is the groundbreaking performance by mark wahlberg ( of boogie nights infamy ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  he completely captured all the goodness , and badness , of the main character of this film , and always kept me wanting to see more and more of him ( his performance scored him a solid nomination from his core target audience , as " best villain " at the 1997 mtv movie awards ) .  the soundtrack is also very effective in this setting , and of course , the slutty performance by alyssa milano is something we could all indulge in ( look for the nice bikini and butt shots . . . if  you're into that kind of thing , that is : ) .  i didn't much care for the father/david relationship which seemed to be a little too contrived , but for the most part , i was really into this movie .  then again , daddy dearest did have one of the coolest lines in the movie when his wife is asking him what the " big deal " was about his daughter dating david .  his reply : " the big deal is that the guy gives me the creeps , and the girl is my daughter . "  good point .  all in all , the movie kicked some fun ass , mindless as it was , and effectively demonstrated every parent's worst nightmare .  mind you , i still can't tell if reese witherspoon is good looking or a douchebag , but hey , life goes on .  and on a personal note , we finally decided to add some taco meat onto our nacho fiesta of usual , and let me tell you all . . . it was a flaming success ! !  another firm recommendation by joe schmoe !  little known facts : director james foley was the man responsible for the critically acclaimed glengarry glenross ( 8/10 ) back in 1992 , at close range ( 7 . 5/10 ) in 1986 , and even directed an episode of twin peaks in 1990 .  mark wahlberg stands 5 " 9 , is born in massachusetts , dropped out of highschool ( later got his ged ) , and was convicted of several minor felonies before starting his career as the lead singer of marky mark and the funky bunch .  his brother is donnie wahlberg of new kids on the block fame .  he is also testing the waters on the acting front . 
neg@ a new entry in the " revisionist history " genre of filmmaking , dick suggests that two not-too-bright teenage girls are the cause of the uncovering of the nation's biggest presidential scandal .  kirsten dunst and michelle williams star betsy and arlene , who while trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene's watergate hotel room , accidentally stumble across g . gordon liddy ( played dead-on by harry shearer ) and the infamous break-in .  when they recognize liddy later on during a white house field trip , they are ushered into a conference room , questioned as to what they know , and leave as official presidential dog walkers .  the girls manage to unwittingly uncover every bit of the watergate scandal while performing their duties , but have no clue as to what they are getting involved with .  when they discover that nixon ( another dead-on performance by dan hedaya , who actually favors nixon slightly , unlike anthony hopkins ) has been abusive to checkers , the presidential dog , thanks to the conversations that he always recorded , they quit and become disillusioned .  during a prank phone call the girls make to woodward and bernstein , events are set into motion that eventually lead to the president's resignation .  this film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward and bernstein arguing with each other on an obvious larry king-type talk show ( featuring a cameo by french stewart ) about revealing the identity of " deep throat " .  from there , we are subjected to bodily function humor and just about every bad " dick " joke one can derive from this type of supposed comedy .  at one point , the girls are having to scream over a high school band playing on the steps of the lincoln memorial .  the band manages to stop right as dunst screams " you have to stop letting dick run your life ! "  much to the horror of everyone standing within earshot .  several other variations on this wordplay surface all throughout the film .  if this movie had been smarter i would have been less likely to fault it's juvenile bathroom humor , but it's not .  the film was apparently made for relatively younger people because every major player in the watergate scandal is introduced and shoved down the audience's throat in the least subtle way possible .  i don't recall oliver stone's nixon having to pander to it's audience , but of course that film wasn't a comedy aimed squarely at a 13-20 year-old film going audience .  the only redeeming thing about this movie is it's remarkable supporting cast .  i wanted to see more of ferrell and mcculloch's woodward and bernstein .  those two characters are the sole basis for my rating .  i wish they had been given more screen time , but unfortunately , they are only relegated to the final half-hour .  their constant bickering and fighting over trying to get the story are a major highlight , especially mcculloch's constant thwarting of ferrell's attempts to gather information from the girls ( who , in the course of the narrative are revealed as deep throat , so named thanks to an ill planned trip to a porno theater by betsy's brother ) .  the other members of the cast are excellent in their portrayals of their particular characters , but are given nothing to work with .  i'd like to see the same cast portray these characters in a script more suited towards their comedic abilities .  as for the two leads , dunst and williams can definitely do better .  they come off as what could best be described as romy and michele : the early years in this particular film , a highly dubious distinction at best .  stay through the first half of the end credits though , to see an interesting scene involving dunst and williams suggestively sucking on lollipops emblazoned with the title of the movie .  an excellent idea marred by poor execution , dick could have been a great movie .  less of the juvenile humor and more of the smarter comedy displayed by the woodward and bernstein scenes , could have made this film a wonderful satire of the nixon presidency as seen through the eyes of two naive fifteen year olds .  as it stands though , dick offers nothing but what filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as " dick and poopie " jokes .  and that , to me , does not make a funny movie .  [pg-13] 
pos@  ( dimension films , " scream 2 " 's distributor , has asked press to say extremely little -- if anything -- about the film's twisty plot .  that's no easy task considering the wit that deserves to be mentioned here , but i will do my best to be vague ( now , there's a first ) . )   " the first one was [good] , but all the rest sucked , " said a cinematically-savvy teen in last winter's wes craven thriller " scream , " her statement referring to the films of the " nightmare on elm street " series but really putting down franchise overkill in general .  the comment certainly carries clout : for every truly great sequel , there appears to be a couple of duds , making one wonder if writers are better off sticking solely with fresh ideas .  but like it or not , along comes " scream 2 . " and believe it or not , it's a doozy -- a slick , sinister , madly subversive good time at the movies , as intent on sending up hollywood's sequel syndrome as much as its prequel poked fun at slasher conventions .   " scream 2 " is definitely that rare movie thing -- a follow-up that can stand along side its original with pride .  it's been two years since a pair of overzealous horror movie fans clad in edvard munch-esque get-ups carved their way through the young populace of woodsboro , california .  those surviving the ordeal have gotten on with their lives .  plucky heroine sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) is a drama student at the midwestern windsor college ; her pop culture-whiz pal randy meeks ( jamie kennedy ) has tagged along .  trash tabloid reporter gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a best-seller based on their ordeal , the basis of which has been turned into a ( very bad ) movie called " stab . "  and dewey riley ( david arquette ) , still suffering from wounds inflicted during " scream , " has left his job as a police officer for a while .  life is tranquil . . .  at least for a while .  several sudden murders bring sidney , randy , gale and dewey together again , but with suspicious eyes cast on each other and most of those in their surroundings -- if these four people learned anything from the past , it's to trust no one .  thus , the possible victim/potential killer list includes said quartet , as well as : derek ( jerry o'connell ) , sidney's new beau ; cici ( sara michelle gellar ) , a chatty sorority gal ; joel ( duane martin ) , gale's cameraman who's not too thrilled with her blood-soaked past ; hallie ( elise neal ) , sidney's sassy roommate ; debbie ( laurie metcalf ) , a local reporter who gives gale some not-too-friendly competition ; and mickey ( timothy olyphant ) , randy's good friend and fellow film student .  cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , the man sidney wrongly accused of her mother's murder in scream , also shows up on campus -- but why ?  like the first scream , craven and screenwriter kevin williamson inaugurate things with a bang .  this time , it's an extended sequence that finds an african-american couple ( jada pinkett and omar epps ) attending a sneak preview of " stab , " making sly references about everything from sandra bullock to the lunchmeat non-roles of blacks in slasher cinema .  before tragedy ensues at the screening , the movie-within-a-movie setup allows for plenty of jokey moments , including a scene from " stab " which turns scream's now-famous drew barrymore prologue on its ear .   ( " b---- , hang up the phone and star-69 his a-- ! "  pinkett yells at the screen . )  it's funny , creepy stuff ( i don't think i'll ever feel safe in a movie theater again ) that effectively foreshadows the ratio of smart scares and spoofy laughs down the road .  another flawless example of this is a riotous cell phone-assault of the killer on randy , dewey and gale in broad daylight ; it builds comedically and ends with genuine terror because of the emotional investment made on these delicious characters .  there are other superb set pieces , but explaining them risks ruining their effect .  there are more players this time around as to provide both a higher number suspects and a staggering body count .  it's something of a trade-in -- the new characters are too large in number to be as fully-developed as the original " scream " gang , but this movie packs in knowing performances ( especially by kennedy and cox ) and more death for your dollar .  it can be argued that , while the original might outclass it by a tad , scream 2 is both scarier and funnier .  it certainly doesn't skimp with shocks -- a major one being the killing of one cast member very near and dear to my heart ( i actually questioned craven and williamson's judgment here , considering how much this person has added to these films ) .  sometimes you wish that more could have been done with stab -- the two scenes we're shown are dead-on -- but for film fans , there are plenty of subtle nods to movies like " the usual suspects , " " aliens " and " the empire strikes back . "  still , " scream 2 " does so many things right , it's petty to quibble .  its penchant for parody is irresistible , discussions of the merits of film sequels and all .  the attractive , solid cast is a definite bonus .  and the denouement ( while not as shocking as " scream " 's ) is priceless ; the film's final revelation incorporates bits of a particular horror film prominently referred to in " scream " with one of the best bad guy motives ever put on paper .  all this and a " scream 3 " is in the works .  knowing the series' tendency for self-reference , perhaps one of its characters will again discuss the concept of sequel justice .  mentioning " scream 2 " 'll help them in their argument . 
neg@ john boorman's " zardoz " is a goofy cinematic debacle so fundamentally misconceived and laughably executed that it takes on a bizarre enjoyment quality all its own .  not since the rampant bumblings of one edward d . wood jr . has a movie been so silly and so serious at the same time .  of course , wood's career can be explained by two things : he had no money and he had no talent .  boorman , on the other hand , cannot court such excuses to explain " zardoz " ( or his follow-up film , the equally awful " exorcist ii : the heretic " ) .  boorman obviously had a sizable budget , a matinee idol movie star ( sean connery ) in the lead role , and although you wouldn't know it from this film , boorman does indeed have talent .  this is the man who made the slick modern masterpiece " deliverance " ( 1972 ) , as well as the autobiographical world war ii drama " hope and glory " ( 1987 ) , the slightly over-conceived arthurian epic " excalibur " ( 1981 ) and the father-son jungle adventure " the emerald forest " ( 1985 ) .  his films all show that boorman is never lacking in imagination , but sometimes that comes at the cost of coherence and taste .  if boorman is anything , he's ambitious , and when he succeeds , it's in grand fashion .  unfortunately , the bigger they are , the harder they fall , and when boorman falls , the resounding impact can be heard for miles around .   " zardoz " is meant to takes its place among the grandest of mystical movies , an obsession of boorman's .  his screenplay tries to elicit the same mythological connotations of the arthurian legends or even " the wizard of oz , " a book which figures into the movie's plot .  but , despite all this reaching , the resulting movie is more unintentionally funny than intentionally enigmatical or compelling .  the events take place in the distant year 2293 , but there is little of the typical futuristic movie-ness to be found .  in fact , things seems to have moved backwards , with people riding horses , shooting old-style guns , and living in large victorian mansions .  it's more middle ages than space age .  the world of " zardoz " is divided into two distinct hemispheres : the outlands , where all the poor , pathetic people live , and the vortex , where a select group of wealthy intellectuals live in comfort and everlasting life .  these immortals never grow old , they never engage in sexual activity , they possess psychological powers , and they live in a sort of quasi-utopian marxist society where everyone is equal , and everyone contributes equally to the society .  however , if one breaks the rules , that person is punished by being aged so many years .  if someone breaks the rules enough , he or she is aged to the point of senility , and imprisoned to an eternal existence in a geriatric home with others aged criminals .  one of the immortals , arthur frayn ( niall buggy ) , a squirmy man with a mustache and goatee tattooed on his face , is charged with keeping order in the outlands and forcing the residents to farm so the immortals can be fed .  like " the wizard of oz , " he adopts a god-like status among the people by flying in to their part of the world in a giant stone carved like a menacing head .   ( this flying head is one of the movie's opening images , and it's a dead giveaway of the lunacy to come . )  calling himself zardoz , frayn gathers a bunch of outlanders and makes them into a group called the exterminators , whose purpose is to kill most of the other outlanders so they can't procreate and take up more resources .  from inside his giant , stone head , zardoz bellows seriously laugh-inducting statements like , " the gun is good .  the penis is evil . "  that line alone is worth the movie's cult following .  one day , an exterminator named zed ( sean connery ) , sneaks into zardoz's flying stone , pushes frayn out , and goes back to the vortex .  once there , the immortals label him a " brutal " and study him like a lab rat , taking great , perverse care in exploring his sexuality , which is a mystery to them .  they seem especially interested in his ability to gain an erection , and there is one downright hilarious sequence where a bunch of scantily-clad female scientists show zed erotic footage on a video screen in an attempt to determine what gets him worked up .  i say " hilarious " because that is exactly what " zardoz " is .  it is obvious that boorman did not intend it to be so ; he made this film with the straightest of faces , although i have a hard time believing that as production moved forward , he didn't get even the slightest inkling of how patently ridiculous it was becoming .  just looking at connery is enough to give one the giggles - he spends most of the film running around in a red loin cloth that resembles a diaper , a mane of hair braided halfway down his back , a wyatt earp-style handlebar mustache , and a pair of thigh-high patent leather boots that would look more appropriate on a cheap hollywood hooker .  boorman made the film right after the critical and financial success of " deliverance , " which is the only reason i can imagine a studio would green-light this effort .  he attracted some rich talent on both sides of the camera , including cinematographer geoffrey unsworth ( " 2001 " ) , whose striking visuals are about the only good thing in " zardoz " besides the inadvertent humor .  sean connery had made his last james bond film in 1971 , and perhaps he was looking for a change in pace .  he got exactly that in " zardoz , " and it's a wonder it didn't end his career .  i'm sure boorman intended for this movie to make some grand statements .  is it a treatise about the infallibility of eternal life ?  is it a condemnation of those who consider growing old to be a bad thing ?  or is it a social statement , something about the inherent negativity of class distinctions and the violence it creates ?  karl marx might like it if he were more like timothy leary .  come to think of it , maybe boorman made it as an extended lsd trip .  people high on illicit substances are the only ones i can imagine enjoying this asinine silliness as anything more than a completely unintentional comedy . 
pos@ notice : this is a review and analysis of exotica .  the first part of this piece is the review , the second part contains some analysis of the movie which might be construed as spoilers .  if you have not seen the movie and after reading the first part you intend to do so , then save the second part for the discussion afterwards .  starring : bruce greenwood , mia kirshner , elias kosteas , don mckellar , arsinee khanijian , sarah polley director : atom egoyan screenplay : atom egoyan  exotica is a film that grows on retrospection .  exotica keeps the viewer guessing about the relationship between the various characters in the film .  all of the people know each other , but apart from that , there seems to be no other reason why to select such set and follow them in this fictional account .  the director hints for possible solutions , using a multi-line plot , so popular with critics in mystery train , and used to good advantage by quentin tarantino in pulp fiction .  exotica reaches a whole new dimension using this technique .  at the end it is surprising to see how well the pieces of the puzzle fit together , in spite their apparent unconnectedness and even misleading features .  the out-of-chronological-order technique has become ever so popular , perhaps even de rigueur , for biographical films .  similarly , we can now expect to see more movies in the future which will use , to varying extent , converging multiplots .  on a first glance , once the multi-plot puzzle in exotica is solved , there seems to be little left to look at .  but perceptive minds which take the time to dig further will be rewarded with interesting views on life or rather , commentaries on views of life .  exotica is very much worth seeing .  it opened to critic's praise worldwide ( i first saw it in mexico city , last december ) .  in canada , it broke records for a movie of its kind , which prompted the american distributor to go for a wide release .  apart from a strong plot , acting is very convincing , and the soundtrack seems as if made for the movie .  the spoon-fed-entertainment crowd may not appreciate this movie , and thus it might last little on screen .  but if you want to try a movie a cut above the crowd , with an originality that is ever so rare , by all means see exotica .  analysis ( * * spoilers * * ahead )  what is behind the complex plot in exotica ?  first , a common theme of the quest for gratification by monetary means .  the lone tax-auditor , the repressed homosexual pet shop owner , the pregnant woman which runs the nightclub , the rich man which has the club remodeled , the audience at the movie theatre , all use personal wealth to buy palliative relief for the penuries of the soul . . . .  then we have the quest for gratification through visual means by most of the same people , including those who sit watching exotica . . . .  in that regard exotica stands for onlookers at a nightclub , for the rich man looking through silver mirrors , and poor-rich people looking at other's people lives through a silver screen .  exotica also stands for unwanted society attention into the lives of other people , such as the tax auditor and the pet shop owner .  exotica is the customer agent looking at the pet shop owner , which in turn is looking at the core of the problems between the strip dancer and the tax auditor through the detached eye of a gay person ( no attraction to the strip dancer ) , and only interested on avoiding jail ( no personal relationship with the tax auditor ) .  in exotica everybody is watching , and what is worse , everybody knows .  second , exotica is about isolated people holding back their feelings ; about people which by voluntary or involuntary means transfer their view of reality to other characters .  the strip dancer becomes the proverbial daughter , the dj becomes the proverbial killer by means of breaking the relationship between the father and the proverbial daughter .  the niece becomes the baby sitter , the baby sitter becomes the dancer , and the dancer becomes the proverbial daughter .  the pet shop owner becomes the proverbial dj , by finding the proverbial daughter .  a chain made of real and imagined links coming around full circle , just as everything comes around to a fitting whole at the end of the movie . 
neg@  " there's nothing new under the sun " is a phrase often used when the speaker actually means " let's find something to copy . "  of course there are very few completely original ideas .  even earth-shattering concepts are built upon the vast body of human experience .  there is , after all , no need to re-invent the wheel time after time .  recently it seems that hollywood doesn't feel the need to even re-write the script .  my understanding of the word " sequel " is a continuation of the story .  the film industry has defined the word to mean reshooting the original with minor changes .  have an overwhelming desire to see an inferior version of brian depalma's adaptation of the steven king novel ?  this is your dream come true .  rachel ( emily bergl ) , a high school outcast , is beginning to notice weird things happening around her .  doors slam shut by themselves .  glass globes blow up .  her mother has severe mental problems and her father is absent .  a popular boy unexpectedly asks her out .  the in-crowd conspires to embarrass her at a public event .  any of this sound familiar ?  once the audience catches on that this is the same story as " carrie " , there's little to do but wait for the inevitable ending .  the effects are a bit better this time around , but the film doesn't work nearly as well .  there are a couple of minor plot differences .  rachel lives with foster parents because her mother is institutionalized .  the boys at her school are portrayed as even more evil than in the original .  they keep score of their scoring with points given for each conquest .  and , uh , there must be other story changes but none stand out .  one nice touch is the casting of amy irving again as sue snell .  over 20 years ago she was the one girl who tried to help carrie .  now a high school counselor , she befriends rachel , but her character's potential is squandered .  there's too much about sue that doesn't make sense .  after the slaughter when carrie kills most of her classmates , sue is driven mad and spends time in the institution that rachel's mother is in .  still living in the same small town , the woman with a well-known history of mental problems is hired as a high school counselor ?  sue tells rachel that her telekinesis is a genetic disease .  this may be the one original idea in the film , but the reasoning behind describing psychic powers as a " disease " is never explained .  sue's eventual fate is an admission by director katt shea and writer rafael moreu that they had an interesting character but couldn't figure out what to do with her .  blink and you'll miss it .  some of the events are filmed in black and white , but the rationale for this is unknown .  it doesn't add anything and the choice of scenes appears somewhat random .   " the rage " retains some of the trappings of " carrie " without the meaning .  in the first film the color red was a motif connected to carrie's onset of powers at the same time she began menstruating .  here there's an abundance of red , but for no apparent purpose .  the casting of high school jocks and cheerleaders as villains is beginning to wear thin .  one might be lead to suspect that most filmmakers were unpopular in school and the history of teenage films is an extended cinematic revenge of the nerds .  the biggest mistake the film makes is including clips of the original .  seeing sissy spacek on the screen only points to the quality of that film - and the flaws in this one . 
pos@  " jaws " is a rare film that grabs your attention before it shows you a single image on screen .  the movie opens with blackness , and only distant , alien-like underwater sounds .  then it comes , the first ominous bars of composer john williams' now infamous score .  dah-dum .  from there , director steven spielberg wastes no time , taking us into the water on a midnight swim with a beautiful girl that turns deadly .  right away he lets us know how vulnerable we all are floating in the ocean , and once " jaws " has attacked , it never relinquishes its grip .  perhaps what is most outstanding about " jaws " is how spielberg builds the movie .  he works it like a theatrical production , with a first act and a second act .  unlike so many modern filmmakers , he has a great deal of restraint , and refuses to show us the shark until the middle of the second act .  until then , he merely suggests its presence with creepy , subjective underwater shots and williams' music .  he's building the tension bit by bit , so when it comes time for the climax , the shark's arrival is truly terrifying .  he doesn't let us get bored with the imagery .  the first act opens with police chief martin brody ( roy scheider ) , a new york cop who has taken an easy , peaceful job running the police station on amity island , a fictitious new england resort town where there hasn't been a murder or a gun fired in 25 years .  the island is shaken up by several vicious great white shark attacks right before the fourth of july , and the mayor , larry vaughn ( murray hamilton ) , doesn't want to shut down the beaches because the island is reliant on summer tourist money .  brody is joined by matt hooper ( richard dreyfuss ) , a young , ambitious shark expert from the marine institute .  hooper is as fascinated by the shark as he is determined to help brody stop it -- his knowledge about the exact workings of the shark ( " it's a perfect engine , an eating machine " ) make it that much more terrifying .  when vaughn finally relents , hooper and brody join a crusty old shark killer named quint ( robert shaw ) on his decrepit boat , the orca , to search for the shark .  the entire second act takes place on the orca as the three men hunt the shark , and inevitably , are hunted by it .   " jaws " is a thriller with a keen sense of humor and an incredible sense of pacing , tension , and horror .  it is like ten movies all rolled into one , and it's no wonder it took america by storm in the summer of 1975 , taking in enough money to crown it the box office champ of all time ( until it was unceremoniously dethroned in 1977 by " star wars " ) .  even today , fascination with this film is on par with hitchcock's " psycho , " and it never seems to age .  although grand new technology exists that makes the technical sequences , including several mechanical sharks , obsolete , none of it could improve the film because it only would lead to overkill .  the technical limitations faced by spielberg in 1975 may have actually produced a better film because it forced him to rely on traditional cinematic elements like pacing , characterization , sharp editing , and creative photography , instead of simply dousing the audience with digital shark effects .  scheider , dreyfuss , and shaw were known actors at the time " jaws " was made , but none of them had the draw of a robert redford or paul newman .  nevertheless , this film guaranteed them all successful careers because each gave an outstanding performance and refused to be overshadowed by the shark .  scheider hits just the right notes as a sympathetic husband and father caught in the political quagmire of doing what's right and going against the entire town .   " it's your first summer here , you know , " mayor vaughn warns him .  dreyfuss , who had previously been seen in " american graffiti " ( 1973 ) and " the apprenticeship of duddy kravitz " ( 1974 ) gives a surprisingly mature , complex performance for someone who had literally only played kids and teenagers .  however , most outstanding is the gnarled performance by robert shaw as the movie's captain ahab , a performance sorely overlooked by the academy awards .  bordering of parody , shaw plays quint as a grizzled old loner whose machismo borders on masochism .  he's slightly deranged , and shaw's performance is almost a caricature .  however , there is one scene late in the film , when he and brody and hooper are below deck on the orca comparing scars .  quint is drawn into telling the story of his experiences aboard the u . s . s .  indianapolis , a navy ship in world war ii that was sunk by the japanese .  his tale of floating in the water for more than a week with over 1 , 000 other men while swarms of sharks slowly devoured them them is actually more hair-raising than anything spielberg put on screen .  shaw delivers the story in one long take , and it is the best acting in the film .  of course , we can't leave out the shark itself ; with its black eyes , endless rows of teeth , and insatiable urge to eat , it is basically the epitome of all mankind's fears about what is unknown and threatening in nature .  a shark is such a perfect nemesis it is real -- having survived sinch the dinosaurs , great whites do exist , they can be as large as the shark in " jaws , " and they are a threat .  every one of spielberg's subjective underwater shots makes us feel queasy because lets us see how we look to the shark : a bunch of writihing , dangling , completely unprotected legs just ready to be chomped into .  the shark in " jaws " was actually a combination of actual footage and five different mechanical sharks ( all nicknamed " bruce " by the crew ) built to be shot from different angles .  many have forgotten , but " jaws " was a sort of precursor to " waterworld " ( 1995 ) , a movie's who soggy production and cost overruns had universal studios worried about a bomb .  but , as we can see now , spielberg overcame all the obstacles , and delivered one of the finest primal scare-thrillers ever to come out of hollywood . 
neg@ wesley snipes is a master of selecting bad action roles .  murder at 1600 , u . s . marshals , money train , drop zone , boiling point , and the ultimate camp film - passenger 57 .  the art of war is another entry in this very ugly and unique category .  ultimately , it is little more than a ridiculous action film with a plot as believable as the warren report , ugly violence that would have made peckinpah cringe , and terrible acting by b-list actors like michael biehn and anne archer .  oddly , it feels like the undiscovered sequel to another snipes " masterpiece , " rising sun .  the movie revolves around the convenient story of a special un operative caught up in a secret murder conspiracy involving a chinese ambassador , the chinese triad brotherhood , a rich chinese businessman ( played by ? that bad guy from rising sun , cary-hiroyuki tagawa ) a chinese un interpreter , and , inexplicably , donald sutherland .  the film ends with more confusion than a boatload of chinese immigrants trying to register at ellis island .  or should i say the film ends with the most blatant ripoff of both the matrix and all of john woo's hong kong films combined .  i am really at a loss to figure out why wesley snipes had the gumption to not only star in this action dud but also act as one of the producers of the film .  i usually enjoy snipes' movies - though his dramatic roles better show off his creativity as an actor than the flashiness of his action films .  simply , i am amazed by the how inane the script was , filled with terrible cliches and extremely violent action sequences .  director christian duguay ( screamers ) has a strange attraction to the viciousness of violent acts -- showing splattering brains , people impaled with broken shards of glass , and lots of gargling and gagging as blood sprays everywhere .  it also sickens me to know that oliver stone , one of the greatest directors working today , had his hand in producing this monstrosity .  i guess snipes sold stone on the conspiracy angle and stone chose not to read the script , watch the dailies , be involved in casting , or anything else -- or else he'd be filing a court order to remove his name from the credits .  it's also seems evident that with the russkies as our new bosom buddies and the middle eastern terrorist angle being beaten to death in the last couple of years that the new international enemies in hollywood are the communist chinese .  i'm sure over the next couple of months , even more " chinese conspiracy/martial-arts action flicks " are going to be popping up in your local multiplex .  hopefully they won't include wesley snipes . 
pos@ the most amazing thing about paul cox's innocence is how unlike a movie it is .  i mean that as the highest compliment .  if most studios were to profile an elderly couple who rekindle a 40-year-old romance , i'd want to run and hide .  the sex scenes would be handled as a farce , producers would shed 20 years off the characters' ages ( so susan sarandon and harrison ford could star ) and true love would shine through any obstacle without explanation and consequence .  along with a charming romantic story , the australian/belgian innocence shows how an increasing sense of mortality combined with revisiting the past while being entrenched in the present can make something that seems so right seem downright questionable .  the romance gets started when former musician andreas ( charles " bud " tingwell ) , learns that his true love , claire ( julia blake ) , lives nearby .  they decide to catch up on old times , but soon find themselves in a reinvigorating affair .  complicating matters is andreas' frail health , and claire's longtime husband ( terry norris ) , who can't understand why he's suddenly become obsolete .  in my mind , the movie is less about the relationship between andreas and claire , than the feelings of everyone involved .  john , claire's husband , endlessly questions what he did wrong .  claire initially insists she's a grown-up , but admittedly behaves like a child , a prospect that thrills and disappoints her .  andreas , an agnostic , begins to question his fate , a message cox delivers in a memorable dream sequence .  cox litters the movie with flashbacks , including the repeated vision of a roaring train .  it's a reminder of andreas and claire's past love ( as young lovers , they met by train ) , but as it recurs , we get the feeling that the past and the present have clashed .  a pall is cast on the whole affair .  a master of the understated , cox strings together a series of memorable moments .  in andreas' dream sequence , amidst the roar of the train and conversations , we get the whole picture of andreas and claire's love .  we also get glimpses into john and claire's relationship .  during a silent candlelit dinner shortly afterward , claire admits to john about her indiscretion , telling more than any monologue could .  all that's heard is the scraping of forks against plates .  the characters are unlike anything i've seen -- they're people .  so many times , movies and especially television portray senior citizens as gratingly spunky .  or they're reduced to comedic buffoons .  ordinary people with a pile of emotions , claire and andreas aren't sure what the next step is .  they do want to be happy , which consists of an entirely different set of conditions than what they've known throughout their adult lives .  bravo to cox , who wrote the script , for not making john a monster , so that claire's affair is automatically justified .  norris is so effective as john that he makes andreas and claire's love difficult to accept .  we feel for him .  he's a decent man .  sure , he may have become complacent , but he never expected this , especially now .  with so much presented to the audience , it's only expected that the material gets a little drawn out and repetitive , which it does .  however , in bringing up tough questions and not offering easy answers , cox displays a skill and ? lan isn't likely to be surpassed by anyone anytime soon . 
neg@ by-the-numbers : a film which introduces characters , situations , dilemmas and developments that we've seen before in a parade of other films .  a film which can easily be guessed out by the end of frame number one .  a film which is packed to the cap with predictability , leading to very little tension , excitement , suspense or interest on the part of its paying audience .  in short , a clich ? -ridden formula film .  welcome to my review of the general's daughter .  plot : an undercover army detective and a rape counselor find themselves locked inside an investigation into some bigwig general daughter's rape , torture and murder .  they must delve through all of the unspoken army rules and the hush-hushes , to figure out the conspiracy behind the shocking murder .  critique : by the numbers ( see above ) .  this film is just there .  it sits there on the big screen for a couple of hours , floats around , goes away , hopefully never to be heard from again .  it is so predictable that even a blind man could see its plot points coming a mile away .  it's as suspenseful as a leaf dropping from a tree .  it's as action-packed as a canadian curling tournament .  get the picture ?  i sure did . . . it's  too bad that it took my friend and i less than two minutes to figure out the entire plot , and to break down each scene before it was even completed .  easy as pie .  it's unfortunate because james woods and john travolta actually have one extremely enjoyable scene together near the beginning of the film , but alas , t'was not to be ( that scene alone scored two of my four points allotted . )  woods chews it up in the few scenes that he's in , travolta passes the test , cromwell plays , well , cromwell , and stowe is window dressing with a smile ( mia since 12 monkeys ( 8/10 ) it seems ) .  and this predictability isn't reserved only to those who have seen films like courage under fire or a few good men , it runs deep inside every one of us who knows to suspect someone as soon as they see their obvious guilty mug on the big screen .  it's like riding a bike .  other scenarios which sponge out any tension , suspense or interest from this film include every single character eventually " breaking down " to the investigators without much reason given , a ridiculously placed background relationship between two of the lead characters , as much action as my grandparents bedroom nightly , and a directorial style that can only reward director simon west with a solid nomination for the " best poor man's michael bay doing his best poor man's impression of tony scott " ( add two scenes with sunlight shining through some half-open shades for grit and integrity , and an all-out rainfall for the finale for further chaos , and you're a great director .  yawn .  yeah , whatever tony . . . i  mean , simon . )  and aren't we all sick of hearing about these army " bad boys " and their overdone " code of silence " ? !  enough already !  next subject , please .  see it on video if you wanna fall asleep after seeing a much better movie like an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) .  otherwise , save yourself the trouble and go take a crap instead .  you'll feel much better afterwards .  trust me .  little known facts about this film and its stars : ironically , john travolta turned down the lead role in an officer and a gentleman , which eventually went to little dickie gere .  ironically on james woods' part , he completed one of his earliest acting roles on tv's " welcome back , kotter " , starring none other than john travolta .  actor james woods recently confirmed reports of his " big dick " on howard stern's radio program .  unlike rocker tommy lee , woods is also alleged to have an iq of 180 .  he apparently scored a perfect 800 on his verbal sats and a 779 on the math section .  what a man !  john travolta is married to actress kelly preston , and they have a son named jett ( travolta loves them planes ! ) .  word on the street is that the kid was apparently conceived during a weekend at demi moore and bruce willis' home .  director simon west's first film was the jerry bruckheimer produced con air ( 6 . 5/10 ) .  before that , he directed tv commercials including the budweiser ad with the dancing ants .  yippee !  veteran director john frankenheimer ( ronin ( 7 . 5/10 ) ,  the manchurian candidate ) portrays the character of general sonnenberg in this film .  the imdb reports that when senator robert kennedy was shot at the ambassador hotel in los angeles on june 5 , 1968 , it was his good friend john frankenheimer who had personally driven him there that day .  clarence williams iii , who plays colonel fowler in this film , is known to some from his role as " linc " in the original " mod squad " tv series .  younger folk may remember him as prince's father in purple rain . 
pos@ the rich man's wife is one of those movies like final analysis or body double , where the story and characters are so one-dimensional and contrived that you know you shouldn't be enjoying yourself .  but somehow , the movie just tries so hard that you begin to forgive it and get into the swing of things .  not that it's bad , it's just that it's been done before ; and better , in my opinion .  i realize that this is going to sound pretty bizarre , but it's probably the best analogy that i can come up with right now ; you know how when you see a spider or something in your toilet , striving helplessly to get out , and instead of just flushing him , you end up kind of rooting for the little guy ?  that's basically how i felt about this movie .  i mean , it's not very good , but it's not completely bad either .  the wife of the title is josie potenza ( played nicely by halle berry ) .  she is married to tony ( christopher mcdonald . . . you  know , the guy who looks like joe piscapo ) , a really stressed-out businessman who drinks way to much and doesn't give josie the attention she deserves ( * cough , cough * ) .  thus , she is driven into the arms of another man , jake golden ( clive owen ) .  near the beginning of the film , josie decides to try and work things out with tony by dumping jake and going on a vacation to a remote cabin in the woods .  once there , however , tony has to leave almost immediately due to business details ( i'm still not quite sure what line of work he's in ) .  making the best of her situation , josie stays there and begins making the rounds at the local bars .  one night , she meets a stranger named cole ( peter greene , finally getting a meaty role ) .  they have dinner together , and eventually , both josie and the audience start to realize that cole is homicidal .  after learning that she is not happily married , cole offers to " take care " of the problem .  managing to escape from the psychotic maniac , josie returns home and starts a reconciliation with her estranged and very wealthy husband .  but then one night , cole shows up . . .  and here is where the fun begins .  from this point on , it's going to be a no-holds- barred cliche-fest , ripping off every movie from strangers on a train to the usual suspects .  this is why most critics panned this movie when it first came out .  and for the most part , they're right ; the rich man's wife has nary one original bone in it's body .  but who cares ?  if you're looking for good ol' dumb suspense movie , you can't do much better than this .  and if you suspense buffs aren't already sold , it has a killer of an ending too . 
neg@  " alcohol and drugs = bad .  not alcohol and drugs = good .  got it ? "  just when you though you've seen enough of brave young women dealing with their personal problems on screen , be that insanity or alcoholism , hollywood releases yet another one of those 'deep , emotional stories about finding yourself' . .  '28 days' is practically a visualization of the usual 'meaningful' true stories that people are so proudly retelling at aa-meetings .  gwennie ( sandra bullock ) is a young woman who drowned her problems in alcohol .  for her life was a big party , with no beginning and no end .  this behavior has of course estranged her from her only sister and from life itself .  her existence is filled with endless parties and comic episodes .  such as when she got drunk with boyfriend jasper ( dominic west ) , borrowed her sister's ( elizabeth perkins ) wedding limo and crashed it into someone's house .  this time she had to pay with a 28 day stay in court-ordered rehab .  here she must realize that the only thing that can save her is her is redemption , willpower and commitment .  most important she must realize her place and direction in life and understand that her life is not just a big party .  the film itself feels like a rehab program , whining and moaning about things that have been said and written a million times .  it is a classic cautionary tale .  an echo .  a big , fat and expensive clich ? .  a shadow of last year's 'girl , interrupted' , which likewise followed in the footsteps of great masterpieces like 'the cuckoo's nest' and 'trainspotting' .  director betty thomas has stuffed her film with so many failures and errors , that it is impossible to sum them all up in one review .  for some paranoid reason she decided to make her film a drama/comedy .  jokes and funny characters almost deliberately delude you from the really important and complex issues : alienation , despair , terror , confusion , loneliness .  and what awesome power and strength of character it actually takes to overcome all that and become clean .  isn't that what the filmmakers wanted to show in the first place ?  even the transition process itself seems like a walk in the park . betty thomas' idea of hell is a cozy , homey place where happy alcoholics and cheerful drug addicts are not allowed to smoke , drink or watch tv after 11 .  it is simply too light , simplified and unnecessary sweet to be taken seriously .  but the worst thing about it is that it actually thinks that it is saying something of significance .  that it actually tries to educate the audience with its extremely predictable and primitive story .   " all you need to do is just say no " , says dr . cornell ( steve buscemi ) as if was the revelation of the century .  and that's how simple it is !  in fact i would rather watch 'lost in space' once again , than return to '28 days' .  as for acting , it's acceptable , but hardly anything else .  for sandra bullock it's an opportunity to demonstrate that she is capable of more than 'speed' .  she handles her part with a surprising professionalism and ease that certainly saves the film from being a complete flop .  dominic west shines as the source of gwenie's devilish temptations , but elizabeth perkins' and steve buscemi's great talents are wasted on unnoticeable and shallow characters .  although intellectually 'girl , interrupted' was a greater achievement , '28 days' is superior in its visual aspect .  there are some nice flash back sequences and occasionally impressive pacing , but the overall technical aspect of this film is on the ground floor .  the most important thing is that we've seen it before and it was a lot better .  'clean and sober' , 'only when i laugh' , 'when a man loves a woman' , 'leaving las vegas' and many other stronger films were made about the same issues .  so what's the point ?  in other words '28 days' doesn't contribute to the moviemaking business on any level .  if you're caught in a snowstorm or bolts of lightning fall from the sky and you're standing in front of the movie theatre , you might as well go in and watch '28 days' .  under all other circumstances stay away , because this film equals $8 and 103 minutes lost . 
pos@ veteran actor clint eastwood has never looked as grizzled as he does in true crime , his latest directorial effort .  when steve everett ( his newest character ) gets angry at someone , he glares them down with those famous dirty harry eyes , furrows his brow and frowns like a grizzly bear who's just lost his cubs .  eastwood has played some particularly despicable characters in his time , but everett could just take the cake .  he gets my vote , at least , partly because `ev' is a drunken affair-a-week womanizer who has many relationship problems , very few of which are with his wife ( diane venora ) .  when his colleague at the oakland tribune is in an ugly car wreck and dies , everett must take over for her at a vital interview session .  the interview is with frank beacham ( isaiah washington ) , a death-row inmate set to die at midnight for the murder of a pregnant convenience store clerk .  eastwood furrows his brow .  as everett gradually finds information , he realizes that beacham could very well be innocent .  he interviews a key witness ( michael jeter ) , who claims that he burst in the door at pocum's foods because his car had overheated , only to see beacham standing over the dead woman's body , blood on his suspenders , gun in hand .  but everett protests : how could he have seen the gun , which was lowered by his side , with the potato chip rack in front of him ?  jeter doesn't know what he's talking about .  eastwood furrows his brow .  crinkled expressions and all , clint is the centre of energy of true crime .  the film is by no means a standard action/suspense yarn , but a thoughtful human story in which the characters come before the shoot-outs .  isaiah washington has a break-out performance as frank beacham , and scenes with him and his weary wife ( lisa gay hamilton ) are truly heartfelt moments .  but the best scenes are ones that feature eastwood duking it out with those in authority over him .  denis leary , as everett's editor and boss , has more than a few memorable moments of restrained anger ( you see , ev is sleeping with his wife ) .  but hands down , the most enjoyable segments of the film are when james woods is on camera .  playing the big boss alan mann , woods and eastwood create amusing chemistry and laugh-out-loud punchlines .  when true crime opts for a high-speed chase to the governer's house at the finale , the quality of film-making takes an abrupt nosedive .  eastwood was so successful with colorful character portraits that he didn't need to switch lanes .  true crime is a tension-building , intriguing drama showcase for the talented director and star .  this is a road block he could have easily dismissed ( i furrow my brow ) .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 