neg@ if anyone had been able in 1983 to forsee a late-night cable show hosted by gilbert gottfried showcasing some of the worst films of the 80's , they'd agree d . c . cab is the quintessential " usa up all nite " movie .  it's one of those childish r-rated movies that kids would love but can't see until it's edited for tv .  it's also one of those pointless , almost plotless movies with hardly any laughs .  and , strike three , it pairs mr . t with gary busey .  i heard gilbert say d . c . cab had " an all-star cast , " but i'm still hoping there was some degree of facetiousness in that statement .  when third-billing goes to a two-minute appearance by famed flashdancer irene cara " as herself , " you can't say a damn thing about all-star casts .  likewise for token appearances by marsha " roz " warfield , paul rodriguez and " politically incorrect " host bill maher , before he was somebody .  appearing in d . c . cab pretty much had the opposite effect on everyone else , especially irene " i'm gonna live forever " cara .  d . c . cab is an ensemble comedy from joel schumacher ( who would go on to direct batman forever ) about a bunch of misfits who drive cabs .  you get the feeling if the police academy cadets had made a different career choice , this would be the result , except here you have such interesting characters as the " token white guy " ( busey ) who wants to get in tight with the blacks now before they take over the world , the token jive talker named tyrone ( charlie barnett ) who wears his hair in rollers and uses the word " honkey " as much as possible , the tough guy with the mohawk and gold chains ( mr . t -- a real stretch for him ) , the aspiring musician waiting for his big break ( maher ) , the mexican gigolo ( rodriguez ) , the woman who actually wants to drive cabs for a living ( warfield ) and the guy who wants to own a cab company for a living ( adam baldwin ) .  we've all seen dozens of bad comedies from the 80's .  some are fun to watch and some are actually funny .  this one is more or less neither .  you'd think plenty of comedic sparks would fly from the assemblage of talent ( whatever ) , but d . c . cab more or less falls flat on a continual basis , culminating in the usual contrived hollywood finale as baldwin is kidnapped and the other cabbies have to go to rescue him .  it's a shame no one was able to rescue this movie from the depths of stale jokes and unoriginality .  d . c . cab has rightly earned its position on " usa up all nite . " 
pos@ plot : a young man who loves heavy metal music and especially the band steel dragon , to whom he's devoted a tribute band in which he sings , gets launched into stardom when the real group get rid of their lead singer and call on him to take his place .  critique : i'm a sucker for movies like this .  a young man with a humble background and lofty dreams , works hard , devotes the time , the energy and the patience , and ultimately hits it big-time .  in the case of this film , our boy loves a certain heavy metal band and as luck would have it ( yup , luck always finds its way into these types of equations , although generally tied very closely to hard work ) , they need a new singer .  his entry and adaptation to the whole " rock 'n roll " lifestyle fills the rest of the film and is really fun to watch .  although i will preface this by saying that one thing that would definitely enhance your appreciation for this film is your own love ( or past love ) of heavy metal music and the whole scene around it .  metal was one of my first loves as a teen and even though the genre of music isn't that prominent anymore , i still check out my motley crue , twisted sister and anthrax cds every now and again .  that's not to say that you won't like this film if you don't like the music , but the music and live performances from the band , play a big part in the movie , and i for one , had a blast watching and listening to it all .  but the even greater draw in this film is the standout performance given here by mark wahlberg .  wow , hand this fella some major props , as he totally becomes this heavy metal geek/god ( incidentally , metal god was the film's original title , and a much better one if you ask me ) .  he is this movie and i was quite taken by his character pretty much the whole way through .  he came off like a regular guy with extremely passionate goals and work ethic , who was willing to do anything in order to fulfill his dreams .  aniston was also surprisingly good as the girlfriend ( and the romance angle between them was sweet ) , but she didn't pull me in hard enough during their emotional scenes .  i was also impressed by some of the " real " musicians who played in the film ( zakk wylde from ozzy osbourne , jeff pilson from dokken , stephan jenkins from third eye blind , blas elias from slaughter ) , but actor dominic west as kirk cuddy made the biggest impression among the band members .  it's to note that this film was based on a real-life tale of a young man who used to sing in a judas priest cover band and then went on to become their actual singer ( their original singer also admitted to being gay , as in this film ) .  just for the record , i'm certainly not recommending this film for its originality or surprise elements , since most of this stuff has already been covered in some way or another in other movies , but because it's a fun , uplifting , well-paced movie with a solid central showing by wahlberg and energetic live performances .  oh yeah , and for those who dig the " heavier " side of music , the soundtrack also rocks ! !  you see . . . dreams  can come true . . .  where's joblo coming from ?  almost famous ( 8/10 ) - blow ( 8/10 ) - boogie nights ( 9/10 ) - detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) - girlfight ( 6/10 ) - goodfellas ( 10/10 ) 
neg@ it seemed like the perfect concept .  what better for the farrelly brothers , famous for writing and directing comedies with offensive subject matter , than to make a movie about a guy with a split personality ?  it's exactly the sort of thing the brothers relish : poking fun at something serious ( in this case mental illness ) , throwing all care to the wind to get a laugh .  jim carrey's signed on too ?  even better .  the national alliance for the mentally ill even helped out by levying complaints against the brothers' new film before its opening , claiming it was misrepresenting the condition of split personality , labeling it incorrectly as " schizophrenia , " and so forth .  such a protest seemed like just the sort of thing that would , of course , only add more fuel to the farrelly brothers' fire , proving that some people just couldn't take a joke , and that the farrellys would be helping the more enlightened viewers to yet another dose of their brilliantly subversive comedy .  yes , it all seemed perfect , but one thing went wrong : their movie isn't funny .  it's not for lack of trying .  the farrellys utilize in " me , myself & irene " their most high-concept premise ever : carrey plays charlie baileygaites , a man who after being dumped by his wife for a midget limo driver , decides to bury all his aggressive feelings deep down inside and never release them .  this , of course , means all his neighbors exploit his entirely too-forgiving nature , making his job as a rhode island state trooper increasingly difficult .  soon enough , charlie's repressed aggression manifests itself into a second , independent personality named hank , a deep-voiced , boorish ogre unafraid of taking the assertive actions his predecessor had been unable to muster .  this guy isn't above crashing a car through the wall of the barber shop in which he's been insulted , or holding a little girl's head underwater because she refused to stop jump-roping in the street .  then things start getting lost in the most complicated plot the farrellys have ever attempted , and the film runs off its tracks .  some have suggested that this isn't a problem , because the farrelly brothers' brand of humor doesn't require plot to work .  they're wrong , of course : plot was greatly instrumental in building up the kind of rollicking comic energy that infused the farrellys' last effort , 1996's " there's something about mary . "   ( 1999's " outside providence " was technically an earlier project . )  the brothers' earlier film wasn't funny merely because it contained outrageous gags ( despite what some newsmagazine articles would have you believe ) , but rather because its most outrageous gags were entirely unexpected .  in " mary , " the farrellys managed several times to pull off a neat sleight-of-hand trick : they'd have you thinking the story was going one way , then reveal its real direction in delightfully surprising fashion .   " me , myself & irene , " by contrast , seems to have been made by folks who looked at " mary " and saw only the surface grossness , missing all of the subtle machinations that really made it work .  having been produced by the same guys who made " mary , " " irene " seems like an even bigger disappointment .  the brothers pile on the offensive humor , taking shots at race , midgets , albinos , mental illness , and all manner of bathroom jokes .  but they haven't come up with a way to make any of it fresh most of " me , myself & irene " comes off as rote , by-the-numbers , adolescent comedy .  the plot , with carrey forced to drive alleged fugitive irene p . waters ( renee zellweger ) , who's in more trouble than anyone knows , back to new york , has an ending that's entirely predictable from the get-go .   ( think charlie and irene will fall in love ?  yeah , me too . )  the farrellys then introduce scores of different characters , and none of them ever manage to do anything you haven't already expected them to do , no matter how outrageous their actions might be .  compared to the curveballs the farrellys are used to throwing , this stuff is almost entirely soft-tossed , presenting an obvious problem : when gross-out humor loses its shock value , it's no longer funny , merely gross .  the jokes that do work are milked over and over until their effectiveness runs dry .  take , for example , the subplot involving charlie's three black sons ( anthony anderson , mongo brownlee , jerod mixon ) .  the incongruity of it all is funny for a while , with three burly black men discussing higher math in ghetto language and white-bread carrey mouthing said language with an entirely too-pleasant smile on his face .  but by the end of the film , they're still doing the same schitck it hasn't been elevated to another , funnier level , and it hasn't been dropped either .  that's too bad , because it ceases to be amusing about halfway through .   " me , myself & irene " reeks of wasted opportunities .  there ought to be more focus on how other people react to charlie's new personality , and on how charlie deals with the consequences of hank's actions .  this doesn't really happen nearly every supporting character learns about charlie's condition early on , so they don't have any opportunity to be surprised by it .  the film throws what looks like a patented farrelly curve in a scene towards the midway point ( involving an albino companion charlie and irene pick up called , appropriately , " whitey " ) , but the script doesn't go anywhere with it , instead leaving the thread twisting in the wind before awkwardly tying it up during the climax .  jim carrey is a gifted comedian , both physically and vocally , but he's left with nothing much to do here except contort himself in a manner similar to steve martin in " all of me . "  it's a great showcase of flexibility and split-second role-shifting , but none of it is terribly funny .  carrey doesn't pull any stunts we don't expect him to pull , and the farrellys' script doesn't give him anything else to pull : the situations in which he must perform the role-shifting aren't set up in any meaningful way .  perhaps carrey can take solace in the fact that his supporting actors fare no better .  zellweger's irene is not a strong female lead mary in " mary " may have been part adolescent fantasy , but she was also intelligent and strong-willed .  irene is nothing in particular , as the film never makes clear whether she's ditzy , clever , or neither .  as such , she gives us nothing to latch onto as the only " sane " person in the film .  chris cooper is stuck playing exactly one note as a corrupt fbi agent , and his character is entirely too straight-laced for a movie like this .  he , like the others , does absolutely nothing unexpected .  after viewing the shapeless mess that " me , myself & irene " eventually dissolved into , i was stuck wondering whether or not the farrellys had outsmarted themselves .  maybe their kind of comedy can only work for so long until audiences get wise to it and stop being shocked .  but i don't believe it -- good filmmakers find ways of surprising their audiences even after people have grown attuned to their style .  if the farrellys are indeed good , smart filmmakers ( and i still think they are ) , they'll rebound just fine .  even after that happens , though , i'll still consider " me , myself & irene " to be a high-caliber misfire . 
pos@ armageddon , in itself , symbolizes everything that is wrong in modern filmmaking .  stories have been replaced with special effects ; character development gets overshadowed by bad dialogue ; plotting consists of a bunch of shit getting blown up .  armageddon is as stupid , as loud and as shallow as any movie you'll see come out this summer , or maybe even any other summer .  but i loved every freaking minute of it .  believe me , i'm just as shocked as you are .  hell , i don't even know why i went to see it in the first place .  the previews were so annoying that i predicted this was going to be the worst film of the year , or at least in the running .  i'm sorry , but " somebody dial 911 ! ! ! "  isn't quite the tagging that's going to sell a movie .  it isn't too wise either to market the film using the movie's stupidest lines ( " beam me up scotty " - yeah , that sure is great writing . . . ) .  i mean , let's face it ; armageddon's previews rival the truman show's as being some of the worst of the year .  neither of them even come close to doing their respective films justice .  of course , you all know the story .  when the earth is threatened with total annihilation via an asteroid the size of texas , nasa calls in the us's top oil drillers ( ! ) to go into space ( ! ) and implant a nuclear device eight-hundred and someodd feet into the asteroid ( ! ) .  in the coarse of all this mayhem , we are introduced to some interesting - and not so interesting - characters .  belonging to the former group is rockhound ( steve buscemi ) , a horny little womanizing genius who's always full of wisecracks , even when flying into space at a huge amount of g's .  also , there's the always cool-as-hell billy bob thornton as dan truman , the bigwig at nasa who recruits all the drillers .  he kind of reminded me of ed harris in apollo 13 , only without the intensity and great lines to deliver .  then on the flip side of the coin is the tired , contrived character of harry stamper ( bruce willis , who does the whole movie employing with annoying accent i can't quite place ) , the leader of the pack as well as liv tyler and ben affleck as the token lovers you must have in any summer movie .  basically , that's about it .  as i said , this is hardly a film about plot .  it's another summer blockbuster with plot points that are beyond unbelievable and dialogue and characters that are mostly completely wooden .  case in point : nasa doesn't know that there is even an asteroid on it's way until eighteen days before impact - huh ?  another example : at one point in the movie , two children are playing with toy space shuttles in front of a poster of kennedy .  how pretentious is that ? ? ? ! ! !  want another one ?  okay ; before the oil drillers blast off into space , one of them starts singing " leaving on a jet plane " , and soon , all the rest join in .  did michael bay attend the school of sappy filmmaking before he made this picture ?  but naturally , all this sappiness , melodrama and special effects accumulate to one bitchin' time at the movies .  and don't get me wrong - despite all of the things i found wrong with armageddon , i still very much enjoyed it .  so even if you don't win one of mcdonald's free tickets , it's still definitely worth checking out . 
neg@ here is a movie that sadly follows the hong kong-recipe of moviemaking and storytelling to the letter .  these kinds of movies are marked by an eye-opening sequence that introduces us to the main characters ; a life-and-death plot in which these characters become involved ; the inclusion of a host of inconsequential characters ; ridiculous subplots , and sunglass-wearing henchmen .  that is not to say that i don't like hong kong influenced movies ; however , it is quite obvious that these moviemakers haven't a clue that the american filmgoer needs more than hip-hop-talking thugs and stupid sight gags .  observe the opening sequence .  a band of hitmen are about to storm an apartment , led by melvin ( mark wahlberg ) and cisco ( lou diamond phillips ) .  they are waiting for their partner to cut off the power so that they can storm the apartment with the help of infrared goggles .  however , their partner is unsure of which cable to cut .  he is undecided .  this happens for about 10 seconds .  the audience finds some humor in his foolishness .  the lights suddenly go out .  cisco is surprised and says : " whoa . . . let's  go ! "  and they storm the apartment in a very nicely executed sequence .  the big hit of the title refers to a kidnapping that happens a quarter of the way through the film .  needing cash , cisco devises a plan to kidnap the daughter ( china chow ) of wealthy japanese industrialist jiro nishi .  however , the daughter is also the god-daughter of paris ( avery brooks ) , who is cisco's and melvin's boss .  infuriated and insufferable , paris commands cisco to uncover the mastermind of the kidnapping .  during his 'investigation' , cisco singles out melvin as the ringleader , and paris orders his capture and execution .  melvin must now find a way to stay alive .  by the way , do you know how the investigation takes place ?  cisco's partner makes the ransom phone call believing that his call will not be traced because of a trace buster that prevents tracing .  but , mr . nishi has a trace buster buster .  to counter that , cisco's partner has a trace buster buster buster .  but nishi has a trace buster buster buster buster .  and so on . . .  there is no doubt that this is an interesting world in which they live .  and there are lots of issues that we'd like to know more about .  how does melvin justify his profession to his fiancee ?  what goes on among this clique ?  why is cisco at odds with melvin ?  there is actually a lot of potential material that could have been explored , but it seems that no effort is made to go in that direction , and instead we are given a not-so-engrossing plot filled with one-liners , silly sight gags , extraneous sub-plots and tomfoolery .  and , i haven't even mentioned his financee's visiting parents who want them to separate , nor melvin's mistress , nor the pimple-faced video clerk demanding the return of an overdue video and on and on and on .  if the big hit signals the future of hong kong style movies that are made for american audiences , then shoot me now . 
pos@ i've noticed something lately that i've never thought of before .  pseudo- substance - hollywood faking deep meanings in their films .  have you ever seen a movie that you really enjoyed , then when you look back , you realize there was something missing ?  more and more , filmmakers seem to be putting out well rehearsed , melodramatic films that evoke strong connotations of being a great film , but if you step aside and reflect on your movie going experience , you may just discover nothing more than elegantly presented fluff .  i'm not trying to say city of angels is that bad .  it had a lot going for it , but somewhere along the way , it faltered .  somehow , underneath the seemingly poetic beauty of it all , there was a gigantic hole somebody covered with iridescent performances and glossy cinematography .  the predictable ending that shattered our hopes ( even though we saw it coming ) only added to the disappointment .  but for over an hour , city of angels is well worth the time .  nicolas cage is seth , a guardian angel who , like hundreds ( likely thousands or even millions ) of other angels , spends eternity watching over the citizens of mortality ; humans never aware of how much celestial intervention occurs in their life .  meg ryan , in her most subdued performance yet , plays maggie , a doctor who begins to ponder exactly who it is we're fighting against when we fight to keep someone alive .  after losing a patient on the surgery table , these questions envelope maggie , and seth , the angel who was there to oversee the patient's transition into the afterlife , is immediately captivated by the doctor .  he begins following and observing maggie , falling more and more in love with her everyday .  angels , who we quickly learn are not and never were humans , can not experience human sensations such as taste and touch , but they do have the ability to make themselves seen to anyone they desire .  seth's adoration is too much to resist , and eventually he does appear to maggie , quite regularly , although such a thing seems taboo among the angelic community .  the angels are interestingly presented , all of them dressed in black and more reminiscent of hitmen than traditional glowing white entities , but it's a nice touch that never seems like a mere attempt at uniqueness .  cage is a wonderfully versatile actor ( think face/off , raising arizona , and it could happen to you - what a combo ! ) who slips into the role of a heavenly agent quite nicely but threatens sappiness more than once .  it's nice to see ryan pick up roles like this and the one in courage under fire .  the two aren't very comparable to each other , but they both deviate from her usual " intelligently ditzy " romantic comedy roles , and it's an impressive side of ryan movie goers rarely have the chance to enjoy .  but even though the two leads do an impressive job , it is dennis franz who grabs us with his interpretation of a hospital patient who knows more than meets the eye .  it's a shame that with so much going for it , city of angels falters so much in its final stages , leaving us with the realization that an emotionally incredible movie was out there , they just didn't know quite how to get to it .  they struggle for an impacting conclusion and wind up with painful thud rather than an exhilarating high .  filmmakers should know your final impression will be the one you linger on , remember , and convey to others thru word of mouth , so after telling us for 60+ minutes that this film is a glorious masterpiece , they sure leave us with a disheartening taste of mediocrity in our mouths .  based on the german film wings of desire ( that being the english title , of course ) , city of angels is ninety percent success , enough to make most people forgive its shortcomings , even the devastatingly disappointing ending .  most movie goers , the non-cynics anyway , will be too wrapped up in the surreal atmosphere to give criticism to that which needs to be criticized .  nonetheless , city of angels is beautifully captivating , which is probably enough to satisfy those poetic viewers who will appreciate a delve into rich emotional territories . 
neg@ movie concepts are often pitched to producers with mathematical formulas involving successful films of the past .  so , undoubtedly one day someone said , " 'evolution ? '  it's 'ghostbusters' plus 'men in black' plus 'tremors . ' "  and so it is .  sum total none .  the alienbusting begins when a meteor lands in glen canyon , arizona .  community college science profs ira kane ( david duchovny ) and harry block ( orlando jones ) take some samples from the meteor and discover that one-celled organisms from inside it are evolving rapidly , doing in hours what took millions of years for life on earth .  just about the time i was wondering , " hey , doesn't the government usually come in and take over the whole area in these movies , " the government came in and took over the whole area .  the leader of the pack , gen . woodman ( ted levine ) , turns out to be an old nemesis of ira's , and ira and harry are blocked from doing further research .  meanwhile , the organisms continue to grow until they are large enough to start attacking people .  by this time , ira and harry have gained a friend in dr . allison reed ( julianne moore ) of the center for disease control .  a country club poolboy , wayne green ( seann william scott ) , has also attached himself to the merry band .  but can they find the means to stop the aliens in time ?  director ivan reitman seems to be revisiting his biggest hit , 1984's " ghostbusters , " but " evolution " falls miserably short .  one reason is readily apparent .   " ghostbusters " had three really funny guys as its scientists ( bill murray , dan aykroyd , and harold ramis ) , but " evolution " has one really funny guy ( orlando jones ) who can adlib and milk the comic potential of lines that prove useless in anyone else's hands .  for good measure , " ghostbusters " had the comic talents of rick moranis ; " evolution " offers seann william scott , who was much funnier in " american pie " and " road trip " than he is here .  scott has one amusing scene where he sings " you are so beautiful to me " to a dragon-like alien to draw it into a trap .  other than that , scott seems unable to make much of the thin material the writers gave him .  an actor in search of a forte , david duchovny looked for his gritty action hero side in " playing god " and his romantic side in " return to me . "  now he wants to find his wacky comedic talent ; what we all find is that he doesn't have any .  look for him to be back on tv in five years or so .  another sad case is julianne moore , who needs to be more selective about the offers she accepts .  she's a talented actress with an impressive list of credits and award nominations , so why is she trying to do slapstick comedy ?  her character has a tendency to trip over and bump into things , but the trait comes off as a pathetic plea for laughs .  the sole saving grace of the film is jones .  he's at the center of the movie's funniest scene -- where an alien bug invades harry's body and has to be pulled out through his ass .  jones is the only cast member who can take the comedic ball and run with it , but he can't carry the whole movie by himself .  he found himself in a similar situation in " the replacements , " where he was also the only comic talent in an ensemble cast .  jones will eventually find the project that will make him a major comedy star , but this isn't it . 
pos@ james jones , one of the major novelists from the middle of the twentieth century , has written a number of fictional works about the effects of war on the individual .  a veteran of world war ii , and a witness to the pearl harbor bombings , his novels are not only grounded in realism but poetic in nature .  they are reminiscent of stephen crane in their blunt eloquence , a trait which lends itself to razor-sharp focus .  but perhaps none matches the scope of his autobiographical novel , the thin red line ; now a cinematic masterpiece from director terrence malick .  the book's principal cast , some thirty characters , has been trimmed down for this rendition , but it still retains its most endearing value .  each of the roles has an everyman quality , emphasizing jones' examination of world war ii on the american soldier .  there's a definitive chain of command present , and this also plays on the motivations of the cast .  but most importantly , and perhaps intrinsic to the novel but not to the movie , a dynamic and effective voice-over is used .  malick has several characters relating their thoughts , giving the viewer a greater perspective of the issues at stake .  the issues at stake are many and one .  told from a limited third-person perspective ( as opposed to a top-down , omniscient view ) , the movie entails the struggle of an american infantry company ( " c-for-charlie " ) to take a hill during the conflict at guadalcanal .  the south pacific island is seen by the top brass as the key position for american armed forces to hold if they want to win the war .  and want to win the war they do .  in an excellent performance , nick nolte plays c-for-charlie's commanding officer , lt . col . gordon tall .  he's an aging soldier who embodies the win-at-all-costs mentality , if only to impress his superior ( john travolta , in a questionable cameo ) .  this philosophy is opposite that of captain bugger staros ( elias koteas ) , who dearly values the life of each and every one of the men under his command .  at the front are the privates and corporals ( adrien brody , james caviezel , ben chaplin , et al ) , lead by 1st sgt .  welsh ( sean penn ) , who must actually execute the suicide orders handed down to them .  the thin red line is filled with intense , visual poetry , but it's nearly three hours long .  although the interest level is high throughout the first two hours , the climax comes forty-five minutes before the end of the movie ; it goes without saying that the movie drags on the back end .  the thin red line will doubtless be compared to 1998's other masterpiece of war , saving private ryan a countless number of times .  but to do so is to belittle both films , for although similarities abound , so do differences .  director malick has a story to tell , and for those interested in listening , this can be a very outstanding movie . 
neg@ america's favorite homicidal plaything takes a wicked wife in " bride of chucky , " and their unholy matrimony is something old , nothing new .  the burning question on the minds of most moviegoers , however , has nothing to do with nuptial specifics or even how the movie stacks up , but rather whether or not the duo gets down and dirty on their blood-soaked honeymoon .  the answer is a sick-and-twisted yes - and viewers are treated to a shadowy glimpse of some hot-enough-to-melt-rubber ( or at least singe it ) lovin' .  guess they're anatomically correct .  chucky ( again voiced by brad dourif ) , of course , is the star of the " child's play " series , a my buddy-type doll possessed by the spirit of a slain serial killer .  in " bride , " the plot ( heh ) picks up with his girlfriend tiffany ( jennifer tilly ) resurrecting chucky's remains ( he was blown up at the end of " child's play 3 " ) with the help of a black arts manual called " voodoo for dummies . "  silly mortal .  before long , she's also been reduced to shin-high figurine status , and the plastic incarnations of these one-time lunatic lovebirds hit the road to scope out some potential new human bodies .  the rest of this rocky horror puppet show plays out as tiff and the chuckster stalk a young couple ( nick stabile and katherine heigl ) with conjugal plans of their own , leading them towards a new jersey grave where a magical , soul-transferring amulet allegedly lies in wait .  along the way , our murderous barbie and ken go through post-marriage motions similar to any given pair of newlyweds - bicker , argue , kiss and make up .  but when they squabble over who's going to do the dishes , watch out .  hey , even faux people have got to work through their problems .  director ronny yu keeps the mayhem flashy and stages an inventive scene or two , but not even visual flair can make up for the fact that these creepy kewpies are neither scary nor menacing .  when one of them charges , it's nothing a good forward punt couldn't take care of .  and when a climactic chase scene is needed , one of the dim-bulb protagonists must _pick_chucky_up_ so the demonic toy can force his hostage to run at gunpoint .  throw in some silly casualties and a ridiculous ending ( will " son of chucky " be next ? ) and this is a bizarrely bad 89-minutes at the movies .  as is the thing to do in post- " scream " slasher cinema , don mancini's screenplay slathers on the in-jokes and genre-parody .  but little of the humor succeeds , proving self-reference can be completely worthless when it lacks bite .  to be fair , though , most of " bride of chucky " is on auto-pilot , so it's not quite right to single out one misfired aspect of the film .  similarly shaky , the acting ranges from screeching camp to boring bland , the effects aren't that special and the story is one big groaner .  here's hoping chucky and his entire clan - past , present and future - rest in peace . 
pos@ this film is based on the campy tv show from the 1960's under the same appellation .  mind you , most people ( including yours truly ) who will see this movie will not have seen any episodes from the original series .  the movie is really a stand alone in that regard .  the family robinson . . . lost in space .  plot : set in the year 2058 , the family robinson is chosen to sail out into space in search of other planets that might contain the natural resources earth needs in order to survive its future .  a colonization process , if you will .  they are joined by able pilot west ( leblanc ) , and evil uninvited stowaway ( oldman ) , who does not want to see the trip conclude on a successful tip .  eventually , their trek goes awry , and all are " lost in space " .   " how do get back to earth ? "  is the question that infests the rest of this sci-fi epic .  critique : this film reminded me a lot of the fifth element ( 6 . 5/10 ) from the summer of 1997 .  it's a film with a lot of flash , but very little actual substance .  admittedly , there isn't an annoying character like chris tucker from the other film , but this film does run a little too long , and did lose me in regards to its complex time-travel / multi-dimensional story line .  having said that , the special effects in this movie were amazing , and the overall look and feel were also way above average .  you really felt like you were in the future , and riding through space with these poor souls .  unfortunately for this chosen family , their 10-year old son is the smartest one in the group , and the father is too wrapped up in his work to notice the rest of his family ( ever heard that one before ?  yawn ! ) .  the acting is ok , and i was especially surprised at the solid performance by tv friend's matt leblanc who shows us all that he's definitely more than just a pretty face .  on the down side , the family riff-raff that cuts through most of the picture is lame and time-consuming ( even though we gotta give them credit for " trying " to develop characters in a sci-fi pic ) , the story line is hard to follow , the evil character in the movie actually tells people that he's " evil " , and the movie goes on for about 20 minutes too long .  on the slick side , many of the special effects are really cool ( the sequence in which the family is " paralyzed " during the hyper-drive is awesome , and the animated monkey that joins the family halfway through the flic is mucho cool ) , the credit presentation at the end of the film is slamming , and the adventures that they fall into are somewhat thrilling ( i will also admit that " somehow " they got me to semi-tear up near the conclusion of this picture . . . . very  odd . . . . . ) .  overall , if you're a big sci-fi fan , check this movie out for the special effects and challenging narrative , and if you're not , i would still suggest seeing this movie , but then you could probably wait until it comes out on video so that you forward past some of the boring parts .  little known facts : this film will always be remembered as the movie that knocked titanic ( 7/10 ) out of the top spot at the box-office after 15 straight weeks at number one .  garry oldman is british , and was once married to uma thurman for about six months .  mimi rogers was tom cruise's first wife . 
neg@ and just when you thought joblo was getting a little soft around the corners , not rating anything lower than your standard " this movie sucks " , along comes this cinematic atrocity and he's forced to take out his secret weapon and spray it with a stench so thick , even the bravest movie-goer would think twice about seeing this waste of time .  yes , despite being a third sequel to a successful original movie , the latest highlander doesn't seem to have anything going for it .  oh stinky movie , let me count thee ways . . .  plot : ( from what i understood ) a really bad highlander dude comes to the present looking to whack out the nice highlander dudes in order to gain their power and become the mightiest immortal . . . or  something along those lines .  critique : a complete and utter mess .  disjointed , incoherent , boring , corny , filled with bad dialogue . . . and  that's just the first thirty minutes !  this film doesn't seem to know what to do with itself .  it's confusing to anyone who doesn't know the series ( i include myself in that group ) and apparently idiotic to those who do know the series ( i include die-hard highlander fan the arrow in that group ) .  the film doesn't explain anything about itself . . . it  just goes from one inexplicable situation to another .  one moment they're in the present time , the next moment , they're in italy in the 1600s .  why ?  who knows .  what are they talking about ?  no idea .  flashbacks mixed in with the present , mixed in with a few spontaneously cheesy fight sequences every now and again , and i even remember seeing one flashback scene which went even further into its own flashback scene ! !  hullo . . . ? ! ?  confused yet ?  i was and i basically stopped giving a crap about anyone in the film when i realized that neither the writer or director was interested in presenting me with any kind of semblance of a story .  random swordplay , mad max-like dudes showing up in motorcycles in the 1800s ?  or were they in the present at that time ?  who knows . . . and to be honest . . . who  seriously cares !  this series should have been shot in the head and put out of its own misery a long time ago , but sadly , someone at the studio decided that it still had a little life left in it .  please , please . . . for the love of god and all that is holy in the world of movie-making , and mostly out of respect for those who loved the original film , put this series to bed and end it !  even christopher lambert knew enough to play second fiddle to adrian paul in this one .  the director also tries to do the best he can with the muddled material , but all he could come up with is plenty of slo-mo action , some fast-motion fight scenes and lots of smoke everywhere .  and is there anything spectacular about the sword-play or fight scenes ?  nope .  and i think we all could have done without all those zooming lambert face close-ups . . . yipes ,  the man is not aging gracefully , is he ?  oh boy , and i haven't even gotten around to the greatest piece of over-acting that i've seen in years .  the man who plays kell in this movie , bruce payne , should get a ham trophy for literally chewing up every piece of scenery that he gets near .  overacting is not a hobby for this guy . . . it's  a living !  he's also very funny , not purposely though .  all in all , the movie stinks .  nuff said . 
pos@ american pie acknowledges a cold , hard fact that most movies don't : it is very difficult to get laid .  its four virgin heroes are jim ( biggs ) , a chronic masturbator , kev ( nicholas ) , who desperately wants to deflower his girlfriend ( reid ) , oz ( klein ) , a lacrosse player whose approach requires some fine tuning , and finch ( eddie kaye thomas ) , a germphobe ( his crass nickname is hilarious , but i won't spoil it here ) who pays a classmate to spread rumours about the size of his member .  jim , kev , oz and finch attend a high school in suburban michigan full of so many impossibly beautiful women it's no wonder they're horny all the time .  after a party at their studly friend stifler's ( seann william scott , in the film's sharpest performance ) house leaves them sexually unsatisfied , the quartet make a pact : to " lose it " by graduation-specifically , prom night , which is only a few weeks away .  american pie is in the tradition of bachelor party or revenge of the nerds .  almost every conversation these characters have revolves around makin' whoopee .  all women are there to be ogled .   ( alyson hannigan's perky music student is the only memorable female of the bunch . )  situations abound that defy logic only to arouse and/or amuse its core audience , adolescent boys .   ( to arouse : nadia's ( shannon elizabeth ) internet striptease-an unexpectedly raucous ( and guiltily pleasurable ) sequence .  to amuse : jim's lusty encounter with a hot apple pie . )  what differentiates american pie from those dirty eighties comedies , aside from a very nineties obsession with bodily fluids * , is a cast that's light years more appealing than that of , say , just one of the guys .  two more standouts : klein and " sctv " 's eugene levy .  klein plays a kind-hearted athlete for the second time in a row , after alexander payne's underappreciated election .  i hope to see more of this warm actor with the disarmingly honest face very soon .  levy's is the most crowd-pleasing performance , and indeed , it's nice to see him back on the big screen in a role that makes wonderful use of that expressive brow .  american pie also wants to emulate the teen flicks your parents _would_ let you watch growing up .  it skillfully employs a broad mix of pop tunes , much like john hughes' movies did , and even pays homage to the breakfast club a couple of times , most evidently when the prom band covers simple minds' " don't you ( forget about me ) . "  the picture ultimately has a healthy , if obligatory , attitude towards safe sex-even at their most libidinous , american pie's protagonists first whip out a condom .  the filmmakers prove that socially responsible raunch is possible .  for its familiarity and for its charming leads , i recommend american pie , but the buzz on this film had me expecting something . . . fresher .  as far as the new teen cinema goes , it's at the top of the heap .   * don't say i didn't warn you about the party scene . 
neg@ ok , i admit it--i find camp amusement with the spice girls .  yes , the same spice girls of the gimmicky individual " identities , " they of the annoyingly infectious bubblegum pop hooks and cheesy unifying mantra of " girl power . "  but not even their guilty pleasure appeal isn't enough to carry their big screen debut , a junky mess which would be more aptly named shite world than spice world .  the film begins amusingly enough , with a cheeky 007-esque title sequence in which the british quintet-- " scary " ( melanie brown ) , " baby " ( emma bunton ) , " sporty " ( melanie chisolm ) , " ginger " ( geri halliwell ) , and " posh " ( victoria adams ) --are introduced one by one ( to , much to my surprise , excited and only slightly mocking cheers from the press audience ) as they croon the silky ballad " too much " ( a tune that would sound right at home in an actual james bond film ) .  a few minutes and an elton john cameo later comes an introductory tour of the numerous plotlines that run through the film : ( 1 ) the spicy ones go on a european publicity tour leading up to their first live concert at london's royal albert hall ; ( 2 ) a film producer ( george wendt ) and a screenwriter ( mark mckinney ) pitch various film ideas to the girls' manager , clifford ( richard e . grant ) ; ( 3 ) a documentary film crew follows the girls ; ( 4 ) a pregnant " mate " ( naoki mori ) of the group rapidly approaches her due date ; and ( 5 ) a tabloid publisher ( barry humphries ) attempts to destroy the group with the help of a sneaky shutterbug ( richard o'brien ) .  capped off by a live rendition of the girls' bouncy hit " say you'll be there , " a wealth of laughs and merriment is sure to follow , right ?  wrong . it's all downhill from there as spice world collapses into a series of misfired comedy sketches .  i must give the girls credit for their refreshing willingness to make fun of themselves , but writer kim fuller and director bob spiers can barely come up with a funny joke between them , much less a organized framework for all the " wacky " goings-on .  spice world jumps from vignette to vignette , subplot to subplot with no direction and little sense , at one minute having the girls meet with aliens ( no joke ) and at another having them stage a daring rescue of two young fans who fall into the water during a boat ride .  while a decent joke slips through the cracks here and there--during a " dance bootcamp " scene , the girls sing the lyric " we know how we got this far/strength and courage and a wonderbra " --much of the material is not even funny on the chuckle level .  some gags are just plain pointless , such as roger moore's recurring role as the mysterious chief , who dispenses cryptic , metaphor-heavy advice to clifford .  the only reason why i can think anyone would find that funny is the fact that moore once played james bond .  ha ha .  as weak as the script is , i think there's one insurmountable problem with even attempting to make a spice girls movie , and that is the girls themselves .  the point is not that they can't act ( and , for the record , they really _can't_ ) but that their individual personas , which works as a gimmick over the span of a four-minute music video , are too thin to survive outside of the truncated , video bite mtv world .  posh ( who garnered the most enthusiastic cheers during the introductions ) comes off best by default because her persona ( rich bitch ) most easily translates into character in a film .  baby's persona ( young innocent ) , to a lesser extent , also works , but the remaining girls' identities are a little harder to flesh out .  there really isn't much to do with sporty besides having her exercise every so often ( which is _exactly_ what fuller and spiers do ) , and , after all , what exactly entails being " ginger " or " scary " ?  apparently , just their wardrobes .  spice world manages to pick up some steam in the late going following a flashback performance of the spices' signature hit , " wannabe . "  the song is as grating as ever , but the energy of the number gives the proceedings a much-needed shot in the arm , setting the stage for a wave of self-referential humor stemmed from the screenwriters' film ideas ( the film almost mirrors robert altman's the player in the way the film snails into itself ) .  this section of the film , involving all manner of derring-do involving a speeding bus , is perhaps its most effective , but it also points up how all the other storylines ( the publisher , the documentary crew ) lack a satisfactory payoff .  spice world is harmless entertainment suitable for the entire family , and it will please the spice faithful .  but this sloppy enterprise surely won't win them any new fans , which is what the group sorely needs to bolster its rapidly waning girl power in the states .  once the hype disappears , spice world will likely serve as the the spices' final hurrah in america . 
pos@ with storytelling this compelling , who needs books ?  based on the book by author james ellroy , l . a . confidential is probably one of the best piece of work produced by hollywood in recent years .  together with director curtis hanson ( the hand that rocks the cradle , the river wild ) whom ellroy corroborated closely throughout the shooting of the film , resulted in a movie with a plot and and script so tight , an atom would have to squeeze itself through .  set in the 50s , the story revolves around 3 policemen of vivid personalities .  jack vincennes ( spacey ) is the cop who is more concerned on busting with fame and stardom ala hollywood style , concentrating heavily on work which will attract him media attention .  there is also the young hot-shot rookie , ed exley ( pearce ) , fresh out of the academy and all-out to carve a name for himself in the footsteps of his legendary cop father .  the tough and unnerving bud white ( crowe ) , a cop who believes in justice , the swift and violent way .  3 policemen , distinct in their characters and paths but all of them working in a place where there is no real distinction between good and evil .  when his partner is murdered on the day of his resignation , bud sets out to find the people responsible but unwittingly delved himself into something more than just a simple robbery murder .  even after exley receives a promotion for his work on the murder case , happenings began to link itself to the murder .  the 3 eventually reach a point of convergence when what actually began as a personal investigation turns out to be an uncovering of a complex web of organised-crime in hollywood .  the last time i remember a film so clever and compelling was when i watched the usual suspects .  in l . a . confidential , you do not get the shock and cleverness as the former but it has a lot more of `story' going for it .  there is not a single moment in the film in which i felt was slow at all .  surprisingly , though spacey did a very convincing job as the street-wise vincennes , the movie was carried mostly by the two rather `unknowns' , pearce and crowe .  pearce's exley is cool and calculative in his actions and there is a slight hint of val kilmer in his appearance .  crowe's bud white is the most impressive of all ; head-strong and temperamental , he should obtain some sort of recognition for his work here .  superb acting . , wonderful storytelling and one of the best climaxing gunfights ever .  easily the best hollywood piece for 1997 . 
neg@ there were four movies that earned jamie lee curtis the title of " scream queen " in the early '80s .  two of them were halloween movies , but the other two -- prom night and terror train -- were the uninspired knockoffs that came directly after the success of halloween .  the same " god , i'm scared , there's some guy in a mask coming after me " routine she did in john carpenter's classic , jamie lee copies here , with none of the urgency or suspense .  terror train takes place on ( where else ? ) a train , charted by some pre-med students finishing their first four years of higher education .  most of them won't make it to med school , though , and it's obvious from the foreshadowing done when the conductor complains , " i wish to hell they'd put a radio on that train . "  the conductor character probably has the most lines of anyone , even jamie lee .  from the beginning , he's talking his head off ( he tells one of his co-workers " think on this -- when's the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station ? "  as if it makes any kind of sense ) and it only gets better as he engages himself in an argument about the benefits of railroad over recreational vehicles .  of course , the loudmouth conductor is the first person to find a bloody body , which is then gone when he brings a skeptical trainman back to view it .  i forgot to mention the prologue .  it's a party three years earlier , with the same group of students .  two of them play a trick on a geeky frat pledge , promising him he's going to get laid .  they send jamie lee up to stand behind the bed and talk to the geek as he comes in , noticing a form on the bed .  she says , " kiss me , kenny , " and he kisses the body on the bed , which happens to be a cadaver .   ( " oh my god , they killed kenny !  you bastards ! " )  it's a sick trick , and one jamie lee wasn't let in on .  she still hasn't forgiven the guy as they board the terror train ( " you asshole , you can't have a good time without hurting somebody ! " ) .  the killing starts before the train even leaves the station .  since it's new year's , everyone's wearing disguises ( a convenient plot device we've seen before ) , and someone stabs the guy in the groucho mask when no one's looking .  at least one of the characters says it's a groucho mask ; when the killer dons it and steps aboard , it looks like gene shalit who , by the way , would make a great killer in a slasher movie .  speaking of weird-looking dorks who still persist on the entertainment scene , one of terror train's most famous gimmicks is the appearance of david copperfield " as the magician , " who regails those aboard with illusions set to disco music .  then there's his greatest trick -- getting laid with hair that looks like that .  for all its attempts at visual style and substance , terror train is more lionel than amtrak , more prom night than halloween , and nothing really worth watching .  only die-hard fans of jamie lee curtis and david copperfield ( if he truly has any fans ) should even attempt to watch it .  and it makes me wonder if a horror movie set in an rv could be much worse .  i mean , when was the last time someone built a shopping mall next to a train station , anyway ?  terror train is definitely the cinematic equivalent of a sleeper car . 
pos@ the event of events is upon us .  people have waited twenty-two years for the prequel to star wars and die-hard fans have been camping out at theaters for months to get tickets to see it .  i don't think that america will ever actually recover from what this hurricane of a film has caused .  it is not a bit of an exaggeration to say that this is the most highly anticipated movie in history .  anyone who tells you " it's just a movie " is either lying or clueless .  it is clearly obvious that after the waiting and the hype actually seeing the movie will be anticlimactic .  the second coming of the lord could not live up to the kind of buzz ( which is far too weak a word ) that star wars epsode i : the phantom menace so effortlessly generated .  but that does not mean that the film itself is bad .  in fact , it is terrific .  i strongly suspect that many of the people who were dissappointed by it have simply surrendered to the media machine and the inevitable backlash .  it is set some decades before the events of the original 1977 star wars took place .  the film focuses on the fledgling republic of planets and the conflict that is raging : the trade federation , angry at some tax raise that was recently put in place has invaded the small , peaceful planet of naboo .  the republic sent two jedi knights ( people that can actively communicate with what is affectionately known as " the force " ) , qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson ) and obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor ) to negotiate .  unable to stop the tide of events that was about to occur , the jedi and the queen of naboo ( natalie portman ) escape naboo and head for coruscant to try and get the republic senate to intervene .  on the way they get sidetracked to a planet called tatooine , where they meet the movie's real focal point , young anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) .  he is an innocent slave boy , but " the force is strong with him " so qui- gon is determined to take him with them to the jedi counsel and get him trained as a jedi .  as any self-respecting star wars fan should know , anakin will grow up to be darth vader and give birth to luke skywalker .  >from the beginning it is evident that this is not an actor's movie .  around 70% of the characters , if not more , are computer generated in one form or another , and though the effects are seamless , the movie lacks soul .  i think that although the computer has played an incredibly instrumental part in moviemaking this decade , cinema should still be a human art and the phantom menace nearly defies this .  this is the lightest installment in the star wars saga thus far , with plenty of broad comic relief to go around , much of it courtesy of an irritating knew character named jar-jar binks .  he's essentially a computer-animated sidekick who says things like " exqueeze me ? "  and " mesa go now , okeday ? " , and although it is often amusing it is also inherently annoying .  the visual effects are astounding ( although director george lucas often chickens out by cutting away from them ) and the movie is a thrilling triumph .  if it lacks in plot and in acting it makes up for it through imagination and excitement .  the climactic lightsaber battle ( oh , come on , as if you didn't already know ) , among other things , is outrageously entertaining and defines the term " popcorn movie " .  what made me surrender and give this movie * * * 1/2 stars was the score by john williams .  even though it does seem like the man scores every single movie that comes out these days , his work here is nothing short of brilliant .  his use of opera during the climax really does add a punch and his ingenious way of utilizing the imperial march as a sort of prophecy is chilling .  the phantom menace is probably most effective as pop nostalgia .  when you see " a long time ago , in a galaxy far , far away " , when the familiar music plays , when the words " star wars " appear on screen , you'll feel a tingle even if you didn't see the movie when it first came out in '77 .  it feels oddly exciting to be introduced to young anakin , a boy whose innocence , we know , will be taken away and who will soon cross over to the dark side .  it is the perfect example of dramatic irony to see the jedi masters aspire to get him trained in the jedi arts ; we know that it will do more harm than good , but they do not .  we not only feel more involved in the story , but we feel like we're seeing the beginning of a saga that we have cherished for years .  the phantom menace , although lacking in human aspects of the story , is a very worthy installment in the star wars .  it works as an action flick , visually eye-popping and often paralyzingly exciting ; it also works as an elicitor of memories , a piece of exquisite nostalgia .   ? 1999 eugene novikov&#137 ; 
neg@ when the haunting arrived in theaters , all i kept hearing about was the overdone special effects and the fact that very often the unseen bumps in the night in a horror film are far scarier than those that you can put a face to courtesy of special effects .  while i agree that this remake of the haunting goes a bit overboard in the visual effects department , i don't think that they are completely to blame for this movie's failure .  it appears that some people have failed to take into account that the original haunting had the " unseen " terrors , and it was about as scary as a dust bunny .  so special effects or not , if the story isn't the least bit scary , you aren't going to end up with a very frightening movie .  the thing that interested me most about this movie was the caretaker of this building played by bruce dern .  dern is always great , and even though he may have had only about 3 minutes of screen time he was still the most interesting element of the movie .  as i sat through the seemingly endless , albeit fairly impressive , special effects , i kept wishing that this movie was about dern's caretaker and not the one dimensional characters that populated the cast .  never a good sign when a bit player is the best part of the movie .  liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting experiments on fear .  he decides the best way to get results is to trick a group of fairly unstable individuals to spend a few days in a haunted mansion .  he tricks them into participating by letting on that he is conducting an experiment on insomnia .  and he also fails to mention that the mansion has a reputation for strange goings-on .  catherine zeta-jones , lili taylor and owen wilson play his subjects .  like the original , taylor's character is the star of the movie .  but since she doesn't quite have the marquee power of liam neeson and ms . zeta-jones , their parts did seem to be a big larger than in the original .  and let's face it , probably half the people who see this movie will do so because of zeta-jones .  i'll admit that i would have never seen this thing if she weren't in it .  but the real stars here is the special effects combined with the fairly overdone sets .  they take over the movie as the supernatural elements of the house start to interact with our hapless insomnia patients .  there really isn't much of a story here .  just endless setups so director jan de bont can showcase all the nifty special effects that he got to play with .  and the special effects are great .  in many cases they are as good as you are likely to see anywhere .  in other cases they are overdone and obviously thrown in just for the sake of hitting the " cool shots " quota .  at no point in the movie do any of these things ever come close to being scary -- funny , maybe .  but not scary .  then we have the set .  when i first saw the house , i was very impressed with the very cool gothic look about it .  but it only took a short tour by the characters around the place to see that the set designers obviously had as much money to burn as the visual effects people did , and decided to take the idiotically overdone route .  this included a flooded hallway with books as stepping stones and a mirrored circular room that revolves .  what part did these rooms play in the story ?  absolutely none .  they were just there to take our minds off the fact that there was neither a descent story nor a single scare in the entire movie .  then we have the actors .  lili taylor has never been one of my favorites .  and when the fact that her character is mousy and pathetic is factored in , she comes in around the average or slightly below mark .  i have no idea why liam neeson took this role .  he basically reminded me of the ringmaster at an out of control circus .  his character was in charge of this farce but it quickly got away from him .  i have no doubt that liam will want to lock all prints of this movie in a very secure vault along with all copies of darkman .  zeta-jones was cast because she is too hot for words .  the fact that her character is bi-sexual is just icing on the cake .  all catherine has to do in this movie is look good .  fortunately that is something she does very well .  while she does have a fairly good size part , it is obvious that her only purpose in the movie was as eye-candy .  it's too bad someone of her talents wasted them here .  any random supermodel pulled out of a fashion show could have easily filled her role .  the haunting is the antithesis of another of 1999's horror movies , the blair witch project .  the haunting had a seemingly limitless effects budget , while blair witch relies on piles of rocks for its scares .  both prove quite nicely that special effects are irrelevant to a horror film .  if the story sucks , it's all downhill from there .  my advice ?  if you are looking for special effects , go rent star wars .  if it's scares you want , rent halloween .  either way , it's probably in your best interests to skip the haunting . 
pos@ with the success of the surprise hit alien , directed by ridley scott , a sequel was inevitable .  in fact , after watching the first film , a sequel was wanted , particularly by this reviewer .  handing over the director's chair to recent box office gem james cameron , who had only made two films previous to this one ( pirahna ii , a surprisingly dull film , and terminator , making cameron a household name ) , the alien series got a face-lift of immense proportions .  instead of being a suspense/science fiction film , cameron alters the series and changing it into an action picture .  what results is one of the most terrifying films ever created .  a film like aliens comes along only once in a while , and when it does , audiences are usually unprepared for it .  i never saw this movie in theaters , but i wish i could have .  the terror and fright must have been unimaginable , most likely with audiences members literally shrieking in fear .  aliens is an action film unlike any i have ever seen .  with a science fiction plot , cameron gives aliens added testosterone , pumping up the action and fire power from the original film .  in fact , aliens is one of those few sequels which tops the original .  perhaps what makes the alien series so impressive is the hero--or heroine , as the case may be .  never have we had a more sympathetic hero in an action film , and never have i seen such an impressive acting job done by the main character .  sigourney weaver is possibly the only actress who could play this character and make her realistic enough for us to care about .  placing a woman in these situations would sometimes seem unusual , but because of weaver's presence , a woman is the only suitable hero .  aliens begins 57 years after alien ended .  lieutenant ellen ripley ( weaver ) is discovered in hypersleep on the nostromo and is awakened .  she explains how she is the only survivor of her past encounter with the aliens , but " the company " is doubtful .  they explain that a colony of families is flourishing on the same planet from which she just left .  despite stern warnings from ripley , the company remains rigid and won't call the families back .  however , when the company loses contact with the colony , ripley's story seems much more feasible .  one of the company's directors , carter burke ( paul reiser ) , wants to gather a team to travel to the planet .  this team includes a buff private vasquez ( jenette goldstein ) , a questionable corporal hicks ( michael biehn ) , and a loyal android bishop ( lance henriksen ) .  burke tags along with ripley as they fly to the planet in order to locate the members of the colony .  arriving on the planet , the team finds most of the human life extinguished in a cocoon-type environment .  the only survivor is 12 year old rebecca " newt " jorden ( carrie henn ) .  ripley finds this a chance to be the mother she never had the opportunity to become , and she becomes newt's surrogate mother .  ripley and newt are the only ones who knows what has happened , and soon , all hell breaks loose .  aliens not only multiplies the thrills and suspense from scott's version , it also multiplies the number of aliens in general .  alien focused on one alien in particular which systematically killed each crew member , except ripley , who managed to jettison the alien out of the nostromo .  aliens focuses on an entire race of these aliens , and as a result , the chills are incredibly heightened .  then again , this is james cameron , the guy who has given us true lies and terminator 2 : judgment day .  he is the best action director out there ( topping renny harlin , who directed cliffhanger ) , and only he could create something as terrifying as this film .  it seems that every alien film seems to have some memorable scene or scenes , and aliens has the motherload .  with perhaps one of the most astonishing endings ever created for an action film , aliens climax never seems to hit until the viewer is nearly pushed to extreme exhaustion .  i can't recall another film ever to sustain this level of intensity throughout , never dropping for a moment .  just when you think the movie is over , something else will occur , and it starts right back up again .  with a seemingly endless conclusion , aliens ends with one of the greatest moments in film history .  this scene is usually the one remembered most from the film , as lieutenant ripley steps into one of the lifting machines to fight the alien queen .  using flawless special effects , the climax is exhausting , leaving any audience member drained from extreme anxiety .  of course , for a film of this genre to work properly , the technical aspects must be realistic enough for us to believe what we see .  aliens is completely realistic , even a decade after its initial release .  the special effects are wonderfully seamless , with a terrifying alien to go with them .  one of the most overlooked aspects of this film is the music , composed by cameron-regular james horner .  horner has created a terrific score , receiving an oscar nomination for his work .  not only that , horner has also created one of the best scores for any action film , or science fiction film ever ( and that includes 2001 : a space odyssey , which was mainly a compilation of well-known composers ) .  in fact , the climax music is also some of the most recognized of film music .  the production design is incredible , which also happened to snag a nomination from the academy .  dark corridors lit by red lights are very impressive , but more impressive is the amount of terror which arises from well-lit locations .  normally a film will be very dark in order to scare a viewer ; aliens uses lights to scare the viewer .  then , of course , is the cinematography , which uses point of view shots , along with video feeds in order to build suspense .  some of the scariest scenes involve the perspective of ripley .  surprisingly , the acting is not only above average for this genre , but some of the best .  sigourney weaver received an oscar nomination for her portrayal of ripley , incorporating the right amount of sympathy into her hard-edged persona .  weaver soars above the rest in this film , but she is supposed to .  carrie henn gives an above average performance for a child , developing a three-dimensional character from her quiet attitude .  lance henriksen is terrific as bishop , showing that androids don't always have to be flat characters .  jenette goldstein shows a fair amount of enthusiasm with her role , and steals several scenes of her own ( though her personality becomes slightly annoying when she isn't fighting ) .  michael biehn gives a very nice performance in the most obligatory role of the film .  however , biehn does a good job , making it seem original again .  paul reiser may seem like an odd choice to play the sleazy corporate director , but reiser manages to pull it off quite well ( however , i still see him as paul on tv's " mad about you " ) .  a very good cast ( which also includes bill paxton and william hope ) highlights this action film , making it stand out from others .  aliens is rightfully rated r for violence , gore , language , and terror .  aliens is sort of the redefining moment of the science fiction genre , as alien was more of a suspense/horror film .  aliens pumps up the stakes , and cameron directs it with professional quality .  cameron certainly knows how to make a good action film , but here he proves how he can create some truly horrific moments on screen .  technically astonishing , aliens' only flaw is small characters who are only there to get killed .  aside from this , you probably won't experience anything like aliens for quite a while . 
neg@  " american pie " alums jason biggs and mena suvari star in this summer's attempt to capitalize on the youth market looking for a comedy about young people they can relate to that combines generic hollywood cute couple-ness and zany comedy .  it's about an a+ student ( biggs as " paul " ) who gets a scholarship to some college in new york city who sticks out like a sore thumb and falls for dora ( suvari ) a ditzy heroin-chic goth chick who has no ambition or self-respect whatsoever and allows herself to be pushed around just like " hick-boy " paul is .  so we've got a fish-out-water formula mixed with meet-cute romantic comedy which ideally should make for a good movie .  unfortunately the atrocious screenplay and boring direction by " clueless " auteur amy heckerling successfully manages to screw up everything about the film .  these characters are totally unrealistic and unbelievable - it's as if everyone under age 30 is a stoned raver .  there's no background or details to anyone or anything , it's just a bunch of cartoon characters running into each other .  not to mention the story itself which is virtually non-existant and contains so many plotholes it's like swiss cheese .  even the basic editing is bad .  if you're looking for a romantic comedy stay far away from this one because it is neither romantic nor funny .  i saw this in a packed cinema on opening night and the audience barely laughed at all .  if you've seen the commericials you've seen all the " funny " parts ( which are all from the first five minutes ) . 
pos@ is it just me , or have disney films gradually lost their appeal ?  i was almost stunned by the quality of " who framed roger rabbit ? " , a fun , unique look at a world where cartoons and people lived together .   " the little mermaid " harkened back to , and perhaps surpassed , the classic disney animations from the first half of the century .  however , the endless stream of " the little mermaid " wanna-be's is getting to me .  you know the spiel : a lame plot recycled from some well-known story , colorful , almost psychedelic animation , the lead character who learns a valuable moral lesson , the comedic sidekick/sidekicks , the seemingly unattainable love interest , a few catchy songs , a few in-jokes for adults , and the occasional out of place warner-brothers-coyote-fall-off-the-cliff type joke .  it's a formula , and like any formula , it gets tiresome .  that's why i'm delighted to hear that disney recently picked up the international distribution rights to the works of ghibli , a japanese cartoon studio .  from what i've seen of their movies ( " kiki's delivery service " and the already english-dubbed and american- distributed " my neighbor totoro " ) , foreign audiences are in for a treat .  these movies , particularly " kiki's delivery service , " are wonderfully original and entertaining .   " kiki's delivery service " starts with an unusual premise : kiki , upon hearing forecasts of clear skies , decides it is time for her to leave home .  this is unusual because kiki isn't a college student or a young adult making her start on the world , but a thirteen year old girl eager to begin her training as a witch .  her mother is also a witch , and as thirteen is the obligatory age for such training , her parents treat her leaving understandingly and put up only token resistance .  just the idea of a witch heroine may scare away some audiences , but no mention is made of the occult , and the subject is dealt with harmlessly throughout the movie : kiki's mother acts as a village doctor , and kiki is able to do no more than fly on a broom .  kiki must choose a city to move to , and what she chooses is the co-star of the movie : a german seaport town , far removed from the country life she has been used to .  initially lost in the impersonal hugeness of her surrounding , she's discouraged , and unable to support herself though her rudimentary skills as a witch .  on the verge of leaving for a new town , she uses her power of flight to deliver a pacifier to a baby who dropped it .  the favor eventually blossoms into her working as a courier , a one-persons delivery service .  this is where the movie becomes shockingly good .  kiki's job is a catalyst for her realizing the beauty of the city and the world around her .  the townspeople she is put in contact possess an inner worth that doesn't seem forced or artificial , but merely derived from looking at ordinary people in a different light .  they're three- dimensional , impossible to quickly evaluate , possessing of faults , and understandably reserving in kindness towards a strange girl .  however , each one has something about them , some interest or trait , that makes them interesting and unique .  the personal beauty of the citizens is complimented by the beauty of the surroundings : the seaport town genuinely looks impressive , capturing the european charm of a medieval city adapted to the more modern needs of the 1950's .  this beauty is beauty with depth ; for every detail left in , dozens are only hinted at .  i could probably go on all day , but i won't ; suffice it to say that many of these minor details could have been the highlight of the movie .  some of my favorites are kiki's relationship with the baker's husband : although he's quiet , never shown speaking to kiki throughout the movie , and he initially scares her , his kindness wins her friendship .  in the garage of a deliveree's house can be found a vintage model t . two old ladies have a relationship evolving from master-servant to friend-friend .  such details gives the impression that the beauty shown in the movie is only the tip of the iceberg .  added on top of this is a lesson on the importance of self-worth .  kiki initially seems to derive much of her self-worth from the beauty of her surroundings and the people around her , but an encounter with a rude girl crashes down her bewonderment , making her question the importance of such beauty .  this causes kiki to lose faith in herself .  however , kiki comes to realize not only the beauty of her surroundings , but the innate beauty inside her .  seeing kiki regain faith in herself is marvelous , and the principal device used to do it is so sublime that i don't even want to hint at it .  the ending of the movie has a subtle charm combined with a sense of awe and , ironically , the most disney-esque moment i've ever seen ; if you don't hold your breath in wonder you might want to get medical attention .  the movie steers free of many of the disney conventions : there is no violence , however cartoonish , no song-and-dance number , and kiki's pet cat jiji is more a friend than a comedic sidekick , although jiji is given many funny lines and scenes .  however , i would be surprised if disney doesn't give jiji more jokes , or at least the voice of some comedian .  refreshingly enough , the moral lesson of the movie is not self-contradicted , a habit disney movies have gotten into .   " beauty and the beast " 's beautiful belle , for instance , learned that beauty was derived from a person's inside , and was then rewarded by having the beast turn into a handsome prince in snazzy clothing .  kiki , on the other hand , learns to separate her wardrobe from her self-image , and nothing more is made of her early desires for better clothing than illustrating her increased maturity at the end of the film .  another difference with disney movies is in the style of animation for " kiki's delivery service " : not as colorful and dynamic as disney animation can be , but with a greater attention to realism and detail , it fits the movie to a t . this is particularly true with scenes of kiki's flights .  the extreme realism of the birds in flight near kiki is magnificent to behold , and helps these scenes capture the wonder of flight better than any other film i've ever seen .  i'm not sure when or how this movie will be released in the united states .  disney tentatively plans a theater release of " monoko hime " shortly following the summer '97 japanese release , and should start releasing the other ghibli films after that .  i'd guess that some will be released on video and some will be theatrically released in peak seasons with no competing disney release .  although the wait is unfortunate , it's good to know that it's being released at all , for " kiki's delivery service " is definitely a movie worthy of widespread promotion and release .  watch this movie .  along with " man bites dog , " and perhaps something by woody allen , this is the best movie i've ever seen . 
neg@ not so long ago , men by the names of peckinpah , ford , leone , and eastwood made westerns .  real westerns .  these were some of the best films of the twentieth century .  those days are gone .  now we have crap like wild wild west to pass for the western .  and that record is not improved with the unbearable tale of american outlaws .  outlaws is yet another re-telling of the jesse james legend , courtesy of b-movie king james g . robinson ( producer of such classics as wrongfully accused and chill factor ) .  delayed since the spring , this version stars the irish hunka hunka burning love colin farrell ( the best part of schumacher's tigerland ) as the bad-ass jesse james .  alas , any sense of his character has been left on the ranch , leaving us with only cute chicks like ali larter ( minus the whipped cream ) to watch .  the spin this time around : fresh from serving as southern militiamen in the civil war , jesse james ( farrell ) , his brother frank ( gabriel macht ) , and his pal cole younger ( scott caan ) lay down their arms and head home to missouri to tend the family farms after the war has ended .  but trouble is brewing in their small town of liberty when evil railroad baron thaddeus rains ( harris yulin ) and his cronies rollin parker ( terry o'quinn ) and allan pinkerton ( timothy dalton ) demand the boys turn over their lands to the railroads .  the jameses and the youngers then join forces to fight the railroad -- by robbing banks up and down missouri , thus cutting off the railroad's financial surplus and playing robin hood to the local people .  along the way , the boys squabble over who's the cutest of the gang , who's the most popular cowboy in the gang , and who ought to go on mtv's total request live .  they rob numerous banks with identical interiors , always with the kindest of hearts , strutting in their grungy dusters as moby songs play in the background .  the witty banter they share could be plastered within a hallmark card .  the biggest disappointment here lies in the acting of colin farrell .  after a great job in tigerland , farrell walks through this role easier then nicolas cage in gone in 60 seconds .  and his american accent rivals richard gere's irish accent in the jackal .  combined with feeling like bonanza : the teen years , this homogenized production ( toned down to get the ever-popular pg-13 rating ) gives us an invincible jesse james that quickly grows tiresome and boring .  the unbearable villains courtesy of timothy dalton and thaddeus rains spend the entire film proclaiming that everyone should be hanged , sucking out any energy left in the film .  not to mention : the real story of jesse james and his gang bears no resemblance to the plot of american outlaws .  instead , the movie is full of old , outrageous tales about the wild west -- tales which went out of style in 5-cent magazines about a century ago . 
pos@ the " submarine " genre of movies seems to be one of the most intriguing and compelling types of storytelling there is .  think about it . . .  these films are completely based in reality , yet only a handful of people have ever been on one , making them fascinating to the general public .  they aren't like movies that take place on a plane or a train , as anybody can get on one of those .  and they aren't like movies that happen in outer space either , because no one's done any of that stuff yet .  when a new one comes out , you don't hear anyone say " ugh , another submarine movie " like people tend to say " ugh , another boxing movie " .  look at modern movies that involve submarines : das boot , the abyss , the hunt for red october , crimson tide . . .  all are well regarded as top-notch entertainment .  gladly joining that bunch is u-571 , which stars matthew mcconaughey as the executive officer of a u . s . naval submarine during world war ii .  we learn he has been denied a recommendation for his own command by his superior ( bill paxton ) .  mcconaughey's crew then receives orders that they will be boarding a disabled german submarine to steal the enigma , a german communications encoding device that has stumped allied intelligence .  the mission goes horribly wrong however , and as a result , mcconaughey and only a handful of his crew ( as well as a captured german ) become trapped aboard the u-571 in enemy waters .  the first great thing about u-571 is the film's opening sequence .  the german crew of u-571 are under attack , which sets the events of the rest of the film into motion .  it's tense , exciting and fascinating .  and i applaud the filmmakers for not copping out and instead keeping the entire sequence in german with english subtitles .  most movies with a scene this long would have panicked and had the german crew speaking english right away .  once the plot gets moving , u-571 gives us action sequence after action sequence , making the audience wonder " ok , now how do they get out of this ? " .  the stakes keep raising ( much like in executive decision , an excellent action-thriller ) , and even though the audience knows how the film will end , it's a lot of fun getting there .  i only have two minor complaints about the entire film .  the first comes from the scenes which follow the opening sequence .  while their purpose is to introduce us to the characters and to get the story going ( which they do ) , i feel as though it could have been done much quicker , and less conventionally .  i mean , did we really have to see the ship's crew at a wedding ?  because of that , you now know exactly what's going to happen to the groom !  my other gripe would be during the film's finale .  there's an explosion which ends the film that is one of the weakest looking cgi effects since the president's plane crashed into the ocean at the end of air force one .  i cannot stress this enough . . .  until a cgi effect can be made to look like a model effect , stick with using models .  yes , u-571 is historically incorrect and there are surely some specifics in the plot that people who have been onboard a submarine will tell you " that couldn't happen " , but the overall point of this film is entertainment .  it succeeds fantastically .  [pg-13] 
neg@ this is crap , but , honestly , what older american audience is going to be able to resist seeing jack lemmon and james garner as bicker- ing ex-presidents ?  especially when their supporting players in- clude dan aykroyd as the current commander in chief , lauren bacall as a former first lady , and john heard as the dan quayle-ish vice president .  yup , you're talkin' pre-sold property here and , for warner brothers , the perfect fit into their now-ritual grumpy old men holiday slot .  for the non-discriminating viewer , my fellow americans is fine .  the raw star power alone will have audiences applauding this atrocious political- thriller road-comedy .   ( they did in mine , heaven help us . )  for the rest of us , the movie is immediately tiresome .  the tone is terrible and the banter is worse .  forget wit-- lemmon and garner merely exchange profanities through most of the movie .   ( has anyone counted the number of first penis references ? )  sure , some of the bits are absurdly funny , including a men's room macarena joke , the appearance of an elvis impersonator on a trainload of tarheels , and an all dorothy marching band performing " over the rainbow " at a gay men's march .  the get there from here , though , you have to submit to one of the most offensively overbearing musical scores of all time .  judas priest , is there a single moment of silence in this film ?  even the dialogue gets drowned out .  what a waste . 
pos@ a couple of months ago , when i first downloaded the face/off trailer from the net , my initial reaction was a fourteen carrot gold 'yawn' .  followed swiftly by a press of my computers delete key , not wanting to waste six or seven megabytes of precious space on this piss-poor trailer .  then i started reading the first wave of reviews from the u . s . . . . . unique . . . excellent . . . . must-see .  well , i thought still skeptical , i suppose i might as well go see it when it gets here .  'here' , of course , was still three months away .  i'll admit , when i trotted off to see this film , the only john woo movie i had seen before was the fairly enjoyable but highly forgetable broken arrow .  i'd heard good things about his previous work with movies like hard boiled , but his films were definitely not on my must-see list .  that , let me tell you , has changed completely .  i knew this fact only five minutes into the film , after the brilliantly shot and acted opening sequence where sean archer loses his son blew me off my feet .  the acting throughout the film is staggeringly good for an action flick .  seriously .  i've never been a big john travolta fan , but he , like cage , perfectly suited his role in the movie . . . . . sorry ,  make that 'roles' in the movie .  even travolta's great performance , however , paled in comparison to cage's character portrayals .  my favourite cage scene was definitely when he was crashed out in compardre dietrich hassler's hideout .  half drugged out of his mind , he sits there reclining back in a chair talking about his son's death from castor's perspective - " doesn't it just break your heart . " he mutters coldly .  now don't go thinking from the previous comments about brilliant acting that this is a drama focused movie - it's not .  that's what really makes this movie unique .  it's an action movie with brilliantly portrayed characters . . . . . not a common mix at all .  suspension of disbelief is paramount in this movie though . . . . . that's  the only way to overlook the fact that travolta and cage fire around 5671 rounds at each other . . . . and  never hit .  several action scenes are just so well choreographed that they just make wish that you could press 'rewind' and watch it over again .  the part where archer and troy have a stand off on either side of a double-sided mirror is just plain brilliant .  whilst cage's and travolta's performances would be enough alone to sustain most movies , the lesser characters are just as intriguing .  joan allen , who usually sticks to the straight drama movies , plays her part perfectly as archer's long suffering wife .  i like the fact that her character didn't end up toting a gun at the end of the movie . . . it  would have wrecked her potrayal .  gina gershon was surprising to say the least as castor troy's mistreated girlfriend . . . . . make that * one of * castor troy's mistreated girlfriends .  other movies would have used her character as just window dressing . . . a  sex object , but instead her character is very strong and independent .  dominique swain , who plays archer's daughter , also does a nice job , though her character is not as explored as much as allen's or gershon's .  faults ? well . . . there were some i have to say .  first , the movie's ending , whilst being very good overall , was a bit too drawn out for it's own good .  after the two combatants begin duelling again after the final boat crash you can't help but think - " geez , are you guys nuclear powered or what ? " .  there were certain bits that weren't handled properly , like where archer appears safe and sound on solid ground after jumping off the converted oil platform/prison - more explanation here would have been nice .  overall , this movie was not perfect .  but i thought it was about as close as an action movie has ever came to perfect .  many critics have claimed that this movie will change the way action movies are made . . . . . i  certainly hope so . 
neg@ an affluent horse breeder's past comes up to haunt him ; an ages old cover-up and blackmail comes back to haunt him at the hands of one of his accomplices .  that's pretty much the essence of the movie and i have to say that it becomes quite boring at times and is very slow .  that aside the story was well presented and probably quite close and representative of its source .  the acting in particular i found very good , the character development was also quite interesting but alas the story simply did not hold my interest enough for me to get into the movie .  a few things about the story didn't sit very well with me for example the original scam and cover-up heavily involved the character played by sharon stone , yet in the end her character played a relatively small role and it seems she should have been utilized more to further the story along better .  on the flip side the character played by catherine keener i found to be very interesting and i thought that it was developed very well and helped the story a lot .  the character's aside this movie had some interesting merits but in the end it lacked in story and pacing .  as far as the acting and casting for this movie is concerned i have to say that the choices of nick nolte and jeff bridges were great as well as that of catherine keener .  all these people acted their parts admirably , as for the part that sharon stone played , she played it well but the part was not utilized enough .  the directing for this movie is something that i have to comment on because for once in a long while you see a director actually add a very distinctive flavor to a movie , this is one of those occasions .  matthew warchus in my opinion added an interesting touch and spin to the movie and i think he tackled a touch subject ( i myself wouldn't be able to look at horseracing and make a movie out of it ) .  there is a certain flavor about this movie and i think that the direction of the movie is the reason for this .  the one flaw that i do have to comment on is the pacing , the subject matter in my opinion wasn't interesting enough on its own to have this kind of flavoring and directorial touch about it .  i certainly hope that the director makes more movies as this does show promise even if i myself don't like it .  all in all i found this movie boring and very slow , the acting was good but the story just didn't evolve enough and wasn't captivating enough to make simpatico an enjoyable movie to watch .  although there is much going for the movie i didn't find it good even though i see the merits and style used and can compliment the movie on them .  i wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone but if you are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic then you will most likely enjoy this movie . 
pos@ krippendorf's tribe is a formula comedy .  done poorly , formulaic comedies might seem to signify the downfall of american cinema .  however , every now and then , one emerges , like krippendorf's tribe , that actually works .  professor james krippendorf ( richard dreyfuss ) , the renowned anthropologist , is in trouble .  his university gave him a hefty grant to discover a lost tribe in new guinea .  however , he found . . . nothing .  his wife has recently died , and he has spent the remainder of the grant money in raising his three kids : shelly ( natasha lyonne ) , mickey ( gregory smith ) and edmund ( carl michael lidner ) .  tonight , he is expected to lecture on his newfound tribe .  rather than break the news ( and face the consequences of misusing his funds ) , he invents a tribe : the shelmikedmu ( named after his kids ) .  however , one lie begets another as he is not only required to deliver filmed proof of the shelmikedmu , but his research becomes a popular phenomenon .  soon , professor krippendorf is caught up in an elaborate ruse in which he films mockumentary footage starring his children as the shelmikedmu tribal members .  his efforts are hampered by the boasts of an over-eager colleague , veronica micelli ( jenna elfman ) , and the intense scrutiny of a rival anthropologist , ruth allen ( lily tomlin ) .  krippendorf's tribe does seem to require a little suspension of disbelief .  no one seems to question the way his field documentaries seem to be shot with multiple cameras , or that his newly discovered tribesmen have startlingly blue eyes .  luckily , as the film builds momentum , that suspension of disbelief is easy to come by .  though there's some mild humor in the krippendorf family trying to pass themselves off as a lost tribe , the real humor of the film is in how james gets trapped in his ever increasing snowball of lies .  the double meanings to many of the shelmikedmu appearances are enjoyable , and the comic timing required for some of the film's latter scenes is superb .  richard dreyfuss is terrific as the hapless professor who soon loses control of his own imaginary tribe .  jenna elfman's position as a romantic lead seems a bit forced at times , but she plays the part with extreme affability .  even the kids , who in films like this tend to be a bit on the precocious side , are endearing and humorous .  yes , the film does veer occasionally into some rather lowbrow humor , but it has the best excuse of all : it's funny .  it may not go down as an all-time classic , but it certainly delivers what you expect from a comedy : plenty of laughs . 
neg@ first and foremost i think this movie comes to grief at the hands of the pg rating it's been given .  for those of us who haven't read the james lee burke novel that heaven's prisoners is based on , do not rabidly go out and buy tickets to movies featuring the combined talents of alec baldwin and eric roberts , feel vaguely depressed by the notion of swamps , gangsters with louisiana accents , plots , sub-plots , more plots , and well , really just want to see teri hatcher naked , this is one movie you're going to worry the price of admission over .  hopeful still ?  well , let me share my moment of sheer panic , and then the cold enervation of the big let-down when a semi-robed hatcher purrs to alec baldwin , " what do you think of my butterfly ? " .  butterfly ? ,  i asked myself , what butterfly ? !  and then it hit me . . .  the scene had been snipped !  damn you , godless pg rating , show us her butterfly ! !  we want to see the goddamn butterfly ! ! !  so . . .  no naked teri hatcher .  forget about that .  okay ?  now . . .  heaven's prisoners is about ex-alchoholic ex-cop dave robicheaux ( alec baldwin ) who's trying to discover life anew running a bait shop and boat hire business with his loving , down-to-earth wife annie ( kelly lynch ) .  everything dull , but hunky dory until a plane carrying illegal immigrants crashes almost ontop of the couple while they're on their boat .  the plane nosedives into the water and sinks , but from its wreckage robicheaux rescues a little pixie-faced salvadoran girl whom he and his wife immediately decide to adopt .  what they don't realise is that the plane's pilot was also a drug dealer , and that the plane had been sabotaged by the latter's erstwhile colleagues .  when robicheaux discovers this , he predictably , against the advice of his wife , a well-meaning dea agent , and two gangsters who rough him up , begins 'poking his nose where it don't belong' , we know that the man deserves all the misery he's going to get .  the question now is whether or not you want to be dragged along for the ride through a tedious , meandering yet utterly suspenseless plot with an unlovable hero as your guide .  as dave robicheaux , alec baldwin is fat . . .  no seriously , this is not the svelte , thinking man's hero of the hunt for red october , it is an out-of-shape guy who doesn't look too good in a roof-top chasing scene .  he's also unconvincing in the movie's dramatic moments , acting with what as far as i can tell is a steven segal-like economy of expression .  three-quarters of the way through the show , while you're probably waiting for the next scene in a bar where robicheaux contemplates succumbing to the temptation of the whiskey bottle , getting drunk and beating up someone or getting beaten up , you'll want to beat on him a little yourself .  on the other hand , mary stuart masterson ( some kind of wonderful , fried green tomatoes , benny & joon ) cast as a down-and-out stripper who has her fingers broken is quite a breath of fresh air , with just the right mix of cynicism , warmth , insecurity and humour to be the movie's only endearing character .  eric roberts as bubba rocque , always believable as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box ( see final analysis , coincidentally also directed by phil joanou ) is believable here as the woman-abusing bad guy who knows how to box .  and lest we forget teri hatcher's role in all this , this being her rather well-publicised paid vacation from playing lois lane on tv's " adventures of lois & clark " . . .  she is totally ridiculous as rocque's manipulative and seductive cajun wife , coming across as devious as a mildly disgruntled au pair who's trying to get back at an employer who hasn't been giving her enough days off .  it's probably safe to say that her day job beckons .  and at the end of our day , none of this is really worth 2 hrs and 12 minutes of our personal misery .  the flying inkpot's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
pos@ like the great musical pieces of mozart himself , amadeus is a true work of art .  it is one of those few movies of the 80's that will be known for its class , its style , and its intelligence .  why is this such a good film ?  there are almost too many reasons to explain .  the story : court composer salieri ( f .  murray abraham ) feels waves of different emotions going through his head as wolfgang amadeus mozart ( tom hulce ) comes into his life as the young genius composer .  salieri feels envy , and jealousy , but at the same time is fascinated with mozart's brilliance and ingenious .  we travel through mozart's life as a composer , through his struggles , his triumphs , and ultimately , his demise .  the acting : abraham is magnificient as salieri ; his acting range enables him to focus on each individual emotion and express it through his speech and body language .  this performance earned him a well deserved oscar .  tom hulce is interesting as well as mozart , a quirky , annoying bratty kid with an annoying laugh .  he's strong , but weak at the same time , and must be aided by his wife ( elizabeth berridge ) , who is good in her role , but lacks dramatic depth .  jeffrey jones , in a smaller , more dignified role than such roles in stay tuned and mom and dad save the world , is cast perfectly because of his noble charm .  the movie : every element of this movie works .  the costumes and makeup are very memorable , as well as its stunning art direction , and unforgettable scores ( adapted from mozart's original music ) .  while wolfgang amadeus mozart was a genius at music , milos forman proves with his film that he is a genius of filmmaking .  this movie is a classic that will be remembered for years to come .  ad2am " i almost lost my nose . . . and  i like it .  i like breathing through it . "  -jack nicholson , chinatown 
neg@ i read the new yorker magazine and i enjoy some of their really in-depth articles about some incident .  they will take some incident like the investigation of a mysterious plane crash and tell you what happened in detail .  it becomes a real education in what agencies get involved and how theories are suggested , and what kind of pressure the investigators are under , and just about any other aspect you can think of .  frequently i get the feeling that the article sounded exciting , but i am being told in more detail than i really wanted to know .  often i get to the middle of a story and say , ok , it sounded good but i now have invested more time than i am willing to spend on this subject .  film is a different medium .  it is a visual medium .  that slows down the telling of stories much more than people realize .  i frequently am surprised to find out how short a film script is and how much of the pages are empty space .  the magazine article and the film script are two very different media .  the insider is a film adaptation of the vanity fair article " the man who knew too much " by marie brenner .  it is too much an adaptation of a magazine article slowed to the pace of a film .  it really verges on being tedious at least at times .  for years the seven big companies knew that they dealt in an addictive drug that caused a host of unhealthy side-effects .  but they pretended for the public that it was unproven and they did not really believe it .  the business was incredibly profitable and the proceeds translated into the political power to squelch and discredit any political movements against big tobacco .  the tide turned when a former vice-president of one of the companies was convinced by the cbs 60 minutes news team to tell the public how much the tobacco companies really knew about the health effects of smoking .  the resulting pressure to stop the story created a small civil war at cbs .  who were the major people involved , what were their motives , how was the story almost killed , how did it get aired anyway ?  that is the story covered in surprising detail by the insider .  this all could have been enthralling , but it is not the sort of thing that a stylist like michael mann would be likely to do well .  and in the end , he failed .  to make a long story short , the film needed a director who knew how to make a long story short .  the film opens with the cbs 60 minutes team in iran with the assignment to interview a terrorist .  we get a taste for their personal style and how they get the upper hand .  they go from being one newsman blindfolded at the hands of the terrorists to the actual interview with mike wallace ( played by christopher plummer ) .  there the news team under producer lowell bergman ( al pacino ) are ordering around the terrorists and getting away with it .  this seems to have nothing to do with the main line of the story , but later when the tobacco industry is so much harder to manipulate than committed terrorists , we have a wry irony on who really has clout in the world .  terrorists can grab the headlines , but the tobacco companies have the real position of power .  incongruously intercut with the iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wigand ( russell crowe ) dejectedly returning from work to his home .  we discover that he has been fired and his career brought to a complete halt unexpectedly .  he had been a very profitably rewarded vice-president in charge or research and development at brown and williams tobacco ; now he was unemployed and needed money to support his family .  rather than support him his wife liane ( diane venora ) demands of him what are they supposed to do for income .  meanwhile the 60 minutes team trying to do a story on fires started by cigarettes have obtained some data they do not understand .  they offer wigand $12 , 000 just to interpret the data .  wigand's severance agreement swears him to secrecy about anything he knows about tobacco dealings , but he is reluctantly he stretches the severance terms .  he is willing to read some documents from another tobacco company and interpret them for bergman .  in spite of the secrecy , wigand's former employers seem immediately to know wigand is talking to 60 minutes and he is warned off by former boss thomas sandefur played michael gambon in an all too brief but deliciously sinister role .  and so the game begins .  wigand is irate at his negative treatment for what he still considered continued to be loyalty to his agreement and his former employer .  meanwhile someone is playing very rough with wigand and his family .  the film examines wigand and the pressures placed on his family as they are caught between two powerful giants .  wigand has always wanted to make tobacco safer and has natural sympathies with getting the story out .  he and his family are assaulted psychologically and financially by the giant tobacco industry that had never lost a legal fight .  al pacino is given top billing but the wigand family is the core of the insider .  the story is told slowly and in just a bit too much meticulous detail .  the film is 157 minutes and is an extremely demanding film for the audience .  the musical score by pieter bourke , lisa gerrard , and graeme revell is one of the worst in recent memory .  it puts ominous chords under some scenes and using voice in ways that become a distraction that gets in the way of the storytelling .  also disturbing is the casting of christopher plummer as mike wallace .  plummer and wallace are such different types and wallace is too well-known for even so good an actor as plummer to play him convincingly .  this film might have been a really engaging experience under another director's control .  michael mann was the wrong person to helm this film and the insider lacks intensity because of his style .  i rate it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale and a 0 on the -4 to +4 scale . 
pos@ quentin tarantino seems to have a knack for giving his stars big careers .  after his pulp fiction , many actors began receiving many offers for jobs .  john travolta made his come-back and is now one of today's most bankable stars .  bruce willis proved his acting chops and is now considered an actual actor .  jackie brown , on the other hand , boasts quite a well known cast , except for the main lead : pam grier .  most likely you have heard of her and seen her in films , but she's never really had a breakthrough performance ( her first film was in the roger ebert-written beyond the valley of the dolls ) .  that is , until now .  jackie brown is a highly anticipated feature film from quentin tarantino , whose last film was the huge hit pulp fiction .  after mediocre acting jobs , tarantino returns to what made his name a household one : directing and writing .  jackie brown is the result , and it is fantastic entertainment .  despite excellent direction from tarantino , the cast steals the film , giving one good performance after another .  pam grier gives a stunning performance as jackie brown , and she is supported by an incredible mix of talent--samuel l . jackson , bridget fonda , michael keaton , robert de niro , and robert forster .  more than likely , you will see a few of these names in the oscar pool come oscar nominations .  describing a quentin tarantino film is very difficult , as you really can't say much or you spoil it for everyone else .  i will tread lightly .  jackie brown opens with an impressive shot of jackie brown ( grier ) in a blue outfit walking through the airport .  the camera tracks along with her , and ends up revealing her occupation .  we are also introduced to ordell robbie ( jackson ) , who sells illegal guns to interested buyers . . .  for a hefty price .  ms . brown carries the money from buyer to ordell in order to keep the cops away .  however , an fbi agent ( keaton ) and a local l . a . cop ( michael bowen ) are out to find ordell and catch him while taking the money .  they try to reach him through beaumont livingston ( chris tucker ) , one of ordell's buyers , but he mysteriously ends up dead .  they try again through brown , but she is hesitant to admit to any wrong-doing .  but after unknowingly carrying some drugs for one of ordell's friends ( fonda ) , she is caught and sent to jail .  ordell pays her bail through a bail bond agent , max cherry ( forster ) , and then wants to find out what she told the cops .  after she claims to have said nothing , she reveals the fact that she will tell them about ordell in order to stay out of prison .  ordell doesn't like this , but they both come up with a scheme to throw the feds and cops off their track .  this scheme seems to be going as planned , but unexpected occurances may or may not foul up their goal .  revealing more would spoil the fun of jackie brown , and that's the biggest reason to go see a tarantino film .  tarantino seems to have a fascination with hitmen and unusual predicaments ( and slang terms ) , but they are always done very well and believably .  his hitmen are normally cruel , but pleasant , in that nasty sort of way .  they talk like normal people , except for when doing business , and they are rude to their girlfriends .  of course , this is a tarantino film , and you know you can expect some awkward situations to arise .  and perhaps the biggest flaw with jackie brown is the slow middle section in which the pace begins to drop .  of course , tarantino fixes this by moving onto the climax of the film , adding a lot of his reservoir dogs-style storytelling to it .  things are told from one person's perspective , and then from another , and then from another , each time learning more and more .  this all leads up to a very interesting conclusion , which decides who is on whose side .  on the technical side of jackie brown , quentin tarantino directs it with the same style as he did with his 1994 film .  however , this time around it isn't as nearly as impressive or original .  the writing , on the other hand , is quite good , although i do find tarantino's use of slang terms offensive .  the story jumps back and forth in time as in pulp fiction , but it's much more easy to understand .  his previous film needed a second viewing in order to understand the time differentiation , but jackie brown is very simply to follow , especially considering that the time is given during the " leaps " in time .  perhaps this is a result of the screenplay being written from the novel " rum punch " by elmore leonard .  the dialogue is pretty much intelligent , and all the characters are fully realized .  the cinematography is very well done by guillermo navarro ( who has worked with tarantino on previous films ) and the editing is very good .  and as with pulp fiction , the music is a highlight , bringing back memorable songs from the 70s and 80s .  the acting side of jackie brown is unforgettable .  the performances are incredibly rich , with hidden meaning behind every characters' actions .  nothing is quite as it seems , and you can't really tell which side one person is on .  the real treat , of course , is pam grier who gives an astonishing performance as jackie brown .  her poor living conditions are superceded by her superior wits , which play an important role in the film .  watching grieg , i could tell what was going through her mind , even if i didn't know what she was thinking .  her face portrays a lot of emotion that you can tell when she is sad , happy , or in deep thought .  bridget fonda gives a very good performance as a druggie couch potato .  i didn't even realize it was fonda until i saw her name in the final credits ( her performance actually reminded me of heather graham's in boogie nights ) .  michael keaton comes across very well , as does michael bowen .  chris tucker has a small , but effective performance .  samuel l . jackson is very good , but it seems to me that he was replaying his jules winnfield character from pulp fiction ( although much less cynical ) .  but no matter . . .  jackson is very strong in his role .  robert de niro is actually a little annoying at times , but overall he does a good job as one of ordell's perspective clients and friends .  robert forster gives one of the best performances in the film , as he has one of the most developed characters .  he is present throughout most of the film , and he holds his own against jackson and grier .  jackie brown is rated r for language , sex , violence , drug use , and some offensive remarks .  as a film by itself , jackie brown is a terrific piece of entertainment , with a complex plot to draw viewers in .  however , one can not help but compare it to tarantino's pulp fiction , and expect great results .  when compared , it comes up short , but not that short .  it's a worthy effort , with terrific acting and some impressive writing from elmore leonard and tarantino .  perhaps the best thing about jackie brown is the discovery of pam grier as a major hollywood actress .  i can't remember seeing her in anything ( except for a small role in mars attacks ! ) , but hopefully she will get many more roles from this one .  expect to see her name floating around the oscar nominations ( and hopefully she will even be able to nab one ) . 
neg@ capsule : liebes meets tod .  this was a film about sex and death .  a morgue attendant accidentally revives a dead woman through necrophilia and brings her into his world which is heavy on orgies .  this film says something obscure about the relationship of sex and death , but imparts no insights .  to make matter worse this print was poorly subtitled into english from french .  0 ( -4 to +4 )  - an attractive 18-year-old dies on a disco floor and gets sent to a morgue .  one of the attendants , ben ( jean-marc barr ) is so attracted by her that he attempts necrophilia .  we see him crawling away after a shock .  in the middle of sex the dead teen has come back to life .  - the morgue attendant was just adding a new form of sex to his collection of kinks .  he was already part of a group that gets together for s/m sex .  the revived teen , teresa ( elodie bouchez ) joins them .  - moral dilemma of teresa's father .  ben has abused his daughter's body , but in doing so has saved her life .  - part of this opaque allegory is a man saved from suicide who joins in the sexual hijinx .  also involved is a man in the final stages of dying of aids , a close friend of the morgue attendant .  he does not get involved in the orgies .  - the subtitles of our print were white , often on a white background making them often hard to read , but i don't think there was a whole lot of meaning there that was lost .  - the title means " don't let me die on a sunday . " 
pos@ after being hypnotized , a man believes there is a ghost in his house .  the review  two low-key summer horror films have become surprise financial successes this year : the blair witch project and the sixth sense .  each has made well over $100 million in north america , based on a combination of strong word of mouth and clever advertising .  if a film's box office take were based primarily on its quality , stir of echoes would join blair and sense in grossing far more money than expected , for it is as scary , if not scarier than the other two .  writer/director david koepp has given artisan entertainment , the folks who distributed blair witch a second creepy hit .  the story gets going after tom witzky ( bacon ) , an average blue-collar dad , gets hypnotized by his wife maggie's ( erbe ) sister lisa ( douglas ) at a party .  while the hypnosis goes as expected to the party-goers , it triggers something in tom's head .  things begin to change around him ( blinking red lights let off a strange hum , for example ) , and he fights to stay in control of his own senses .  where these experiences take tom , maggie and their son jake ( cope ) , who tom thinks might have some answers , is down a dark path that will scare and disturb you .  david koepp keeps the action localized ; the majority of the action takes place at tom's house or just down the street .  by keeping things at home , koepp is able to proceed without having to resort to any clumsy segues ( montages of driving down roads as we move from one city to another etc . ) .  unfortunately , the dread and spookiness of stir of echoes are frequently interrupted by moments of levity .  humour can take the tension away from a scene faster than any shoddy special effect or poor acting .  several tense moments become completely diffused by a few misplaced jokes .  also , there are a couple of plot developments that are left unresolved , though to mention them would be to give too much away .  kevin bacon handles the duel task of playing an everyman and a man losing his sanity admirably .  his total lack of understanding of what is happening to him is believable , as are the reactions from his wife maggie .  kathryn erbe is given a role meatier and better written than that of most " wife who can no longer handle her husband " parts .  while it is still a supporting role , her maggie is moving as she watches both her husband and her son enter what she calls " a private club that i'm not invited to " , where they whisper about things all day long .  as jake , zachary cope equals the performance of haley joel osment in the sixth sense , but gets less screen time .  both children manage the same trick , making the audience creeped out by their apparent acceptance of the way things are .  fans of blair and sixth sense will almost surely love stir of echoes .  it combines the dread of blair , a creepy closed-in feel thanks to cinematographer fred murphy and great performances by the whole cast , specifically bacon , to give the fall its first genuine scary film .  if only they had let up on the unneeded funny bits and tweaked the plot a bit more , this could have been one of the year's best . 
neg@ back in february at the monthly los angeles comic book and science fiction convention , new line cinema put on a lavish presentation for its big-screen update of the cult 1960s sci-fi tv show lost in space , complete with in-person appearances by cast members mimi rogers , matt leblanc , lacey chabert , jack johnson , and even gary oldman .  that should have set off my warning alarms--the last time such an extravagant film presentation took place at the convention was nearly five years ago , when none other than arnold schwarzenegger made an in-person cameo to peddle . . .  last action hero .  but no , like millions of others , i bought into the hype and " got lost . "  if only i had gotten lost--literally--on the way to theatre and spared myself the tedium of this sloppily slapped-together blockbuster wannabe .  you may find yourself wondering if director stephen hopkins and screenwriter akiva goldsman were lost themselves when they made the film .  at the convention , goldsman claimed to be a rabid fan of the original television series , and if that really is the case , i'd hate to see what he does with concepts he only has mild interest in .  to say that his script lacks narrative cohesion is to imply that there is a narrative to begin with--which there most certainly is not .  after the setup , in which the robinson family--father john ( william hurt , looking and sounding as spaced out as he does in interviews ) , mother maureen ( rogers , wasted ) , daughters judy ( heather graham , ditto ) and penny ( a heavily made-up chabert , looking like a junior version of neve campbell in wild things ) , and son will ( young newcomer johnson , making the best of it ) --and pilot don west ( leblanc , doing a bad han solo impression ) find themselves lost in space after their ship is sabotaged by evil stowaway dr . smith ( a watered-down but still-lively oldman , cashing a paycheck and loving every minute ) , the script's " stream " of events becomes so fragmented and random that it seems to be made up as it goes along--and hopkins does little to make what does go on the slightest bit interesting .  they encounter another ship .  they board it .  alien spiders attack them .  they return to their ship .  the other one explodes .  they land on a deserted planet .  and so on .  an attempt at a plot involving time travel occurs in the third act , but goldsman doesn't seem to understand the rules that come with using such a story device ; when one character's past self dies , the future incarnation inexplicably lives on .  the look and effects should be lost in space's ace-in-the-hole , but hopkins even manages to botch that .  for a big-budget film , the visual effects are incredibly shoddy .  in one composite background shot , i could see the blue outline around oldman ; the various digital effects for the space battle scenes look like . . .  digital effects .  but nothing in those shots is as jaw-droppingly unconvincing as blawp , a monkey-like space creature that becomes penny's pet .  entirely computer-generated and every inch showing it , blawp looks like it was lifted directly from a sony playstation game .  apparently hopkins thought the same and tried desperately to hide it ; how else can one explain the graininess of blawp's composite shots with the human actors ?  but in doing so , the seams are that much more obvious .  you have to be severely visually impaired to not be distracted when a grainy shot of penny and blawp is immediately followed by a crystal-clear solo reaction shot of judy .  new line is hoping lost in space will become a big franchise much like the long-running star trek cash cow at paramount .  i don't think so .  in a few years , the lost in space movie will likely live on not as a series but as the obscure answer to a trivia question : what film ended titanic's 15-week reign at the top of the weekend box office ? 
pos@  " if there's a beast in men , it meets its match in women , too . "  starring sarah patterson , angela lansbury , tusse silberg , david warner directed by neil jordan written by jordan and angela carter , from a story by carter cinematography by bryan loftus  in recent years , there has been a trend in the field of fantasy : writers have been revisiting the fertile world of myth and fairy tale and reclaiming that world , investing it with new life and energy .  in modern times , fairy tales have become disneyfied and debased ; they have become trite adventures involving leering witches , friendly dwarves , and cuddly talking animals .  but in their original forms , fairy tales have a dark , wicked edge .  crows tear out the eyes of cinderella's sisters , a gorier fate then they receive in the animated version .  hansel and gretel relish cooking the witch in her own oven .  writers have become fascinated by the bloodier , morally ambivalent aspects of fairy tales , and are now modernizing the old stories while simultaneously going back to their roots .  before this trend was in vogue , angela carter--whose stories always have a dark , wicked , subversive edge--had been reinventing fairy tales for years .  in the company of wolves , she and neil jordan retell the story of red riding hood , enlivening it with werewolves , rolls royces , and a visit from satan .  the story is structured as a dream , occurring in the mind of rosaleen ( sarah patterson ) , an adolescent girl about whose 'real' life we learn very little .  within the dream , there are a number of inset stories , most told by dream-rosaleen's grandmother ( angela lansbury ) , and these tales gloss the central story in intriguing , suggestive ways .  the result is a surprisingly successful example of a sinister , contemporary fairy tale .  i say " surprisingly " because there are so many ways this film could have gone wrong .  and there are ways in which it does .  the performances are mediocre , except for lansbury's--she finds the right note for the prim , apple-cheeked granny , the wise and stern teller of cautionary tales .  the soundtrack , synth-heavy , reminded me of bad 80s horror movies , as did the special effects in the shapechanging scenes .  probably state-of-the-art at the time , they are now laughable .  but jordan succeeds at what i consider the trickiest aspect of the film : he transcends the poor acting/music/effects and conveys a sense of the fantastic , of otherness .  one of the problems in adapting full-blown fantasies is that fantasy is often best left to the imagination of the reader , rather than being subjected to the 'realism' of the screen .  part of me would love to see an adaptation of 'the lord of the rings , ' but , on the other hand , i know that any filmmaker's recreation of ents , hobbits , and balrogs is inevitably going to be really lame compared to what i picture in my mind .  this makes jordan's accomplishment here seem mighty impressive to me : he imbues the company of wolves with a genuine sense of magic and mystery .  the somewhat ruritanian dreamworld becomes a kind of ur-reality .  the sunshine is exceptionally warm and abundant .  the nights are quiet and misty and eerie and ghostly .  the peasant village is rustic and cozy , the woods old and hoary .  this archetypal realm is the setting for a smart , subtle , literate script , a script which is as good as you'd expect from jordan ( himself an accomplished fiction writer ) and carter .  for carter , the cauldron of story is a witches' brew , bubbling over with primal ingredients : mist-shrouded forests , ancient graveyards , virginal girls and wise women , wolves with glowing eyes .  she adeptly blends them all together .  there is a symbolic richness to the film ; everything is permeated with a sense of significance .  the point of it all , i think , is to represent a girl's rites-of-passage on an unconscious , primordial level .  a night-journey through the forest , from the village to the grandmother's home , is the crux of the company of wolves .   " don't stray from the path , " rosaleen is told , again and again , and the path is both literal and figurative : the path through the forest and the path of life .  staying on the path is the conventional approach suggested by rosaleen's elders .  carter and jordan , never conventional , explore what goes on when you leave the path .  those who stray will supposedly meet with a dark fate .  this fate is literalized in the dream as werewolves , but the werewolves connote many things : death , sex , knowledge .  if straying from the path leads to death , then it's not a good idea--but if that's what you have to risk to get sex and knowledge ( and therefore power ) , then maybe it's worth the risk .  when you leave the path , the world becomes a dangerous , ambiguous place , but it's full of potential .  and it's certainly more interesting than the disney version . 
neg@ whether you like the beatles or not , nobody wants to see the bee gee's take on some of the fab four's best known songs .  well , maybe that's not true .   .   .  maybe you're curious , the way you have to look in your hanky after you blow your nose .  you just have to know how bad bad can be .  if that's the case , rejoice , because it was twenty years ago today ( or so ) that sgt .  pepper's lonely hearts club band was released ( unleashed ? ) to the world , and thanks to our modern technological advances , you can find this retched piece of filmmaking on vhs .  derived from the lyrics of various beatles' songs , sgt .  pepper's tells the story of the fictitious band made popular from the song ( and album ) of the same name , released in 1967 .  of course , the movie was made eleven years later , the gibbs three have become the lonely hearts , peter frampton is the one and only billy shears , and aside from being about a rock band , the story doesn't correlate to the song at all .  and oh , what joy - we're the lovely audience they'd like to take home with them .  i don't think so .  but at least these characters are actually * people * in a beatles' song , whereas other characters such as strawberry fields ( sandy farina ) gets her name from a song about a * place * called strawberry fields .  the debate over this is really quite futile when it comes down to it , because all the film really has to offer is a feast of horrid cover tunes , embarrassing cameo appearances ( george burns ? !  steve martin ? ! ?  alice cooper ? ! ? ! ) , and uuuuuuggggggglllllllyyyyy 70's fashion and faces .  check please !  the plot is a bit unclear .  people with bad 70's hair run around in leisure suits engaging in music video sequences that look like a sick and twisted world of make-believe from an overly demented mr . rogers .  mean mr . mustard ( frankie howerd ) somehow gets hold of all billy & co . 's instruments , calling dr . maxwell edison ( steve martin with a silver hammer and an out-of-key singing voice ) , the sun king , marvin sunk ( alice cooper ! ) , and a couple of creepy robots to his aid .  supposedly this is a horrible thing ?  i guess in heartland , the talent is pretty non-existent .  meanwhile , the lonely hearts are off doing the classic " sex , drugs , and rock n' roll " thing , leaving poor strawberry fields without her true love , billy .  she sets out to find him , leaving her poor dad and mom ( mrs .  fields !  hey , wanna cookie ? )  all alone to sing a horrible rendition of " she's leaving home " , accompanied by those same creepy robots .  but is billy getting it on with lucy ( dianne steinberg ) ?  ya know , the diamond possessing girl who hangs out in the sky ?  well , there's some crazy chick singing soprano on the roof of a building next to a bus stop , and i assume that's who it was .  it's movies like this that make ya sit back and ask the unanswerable question , " what the hell were they thinking ? ? ? "  nobody will ever know , but as a novelty , sgt .  pepper's is one to examine .  carol channing , robert palmer , keith carradine - they're all here .  but why ? ? ? ?  who knows .  it's irrelevant .  there's as much meaning to be found here as there is to be found in your belly-button lint , although the latter may be more interesting .  with the recent onslaught of 70's nostalgia in the movie world ( the ice storm , boogie nights , reissues of the star wars trilogy , etc . ) , let's pray this doesn't get a special 20th anniversary , second-chance in theaters .  in the words of paul mccartney , live and let die .  in fact , bury this one while you still can . 
pos@ cinematically speaking , gordon parks' original 1971 _shaft_ is not a great film .  a bit slow at times and more than a little rough around the edges as it builds to its climactic explosion of violent action , this spirited but formulaic yarn that initially brought ernest tidyman's " black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks " to the big screen hardly qualifies as groundbreaking filmmaking .  yet nearly 30 years after its original release--and long after the genre it spawned , " blaxploitation , " died with that decade--the 1971 _shaft_ remains an extremely entertaining watch , never having completely escaped pop culture consciousness .  the reason for this is the same one that explains the film's connection with moviegoers far beyond the target african-american audience : the title character of john shaft .  while the fact that the strong , smart , virile , and superbly suave shaft is black is the primary factor for his historical and cultural significance , his broad-based appeal stems from an idea that transcends race : he is comfortable , confident , and proud about who he is , and anyone who had a problem with that could simply kiss his ass .  this fact also explains why john singleton's y2g revival of john shaft is as enjoyable as it is .  much like the film that started the franchise , this _shaft_'s plot doesn't score points in the originality department , but the energy level and smooth attitude distinguishes it from standard crime thrillers .  contrary to what has been reported over the past few months , this _shaft_ is not a remake of the original film , but more of a sequel/spinoff .  the star audiences know and love from the original film and its first two sequels ( 1972's _shaft's_big_score ! _ and 1973's _shaft_in_africa_ ) , richard roundtree , once again plays john shaft , who still runs a private investigation firm in new york city .  however , the focus of the film lies on his same-named nephew ( samuel l . jackson ) , who , as the film begins , is a cop whose take-no-crap demeanor constantly leaves him at odds with his superiors .  when a privileged young man named walter wade jr . ( christian bale ) accused of a brutal , racially-motivated murder is allowed to be released on bail , a disgusted shaft leaves the force and decides to take matters into his own hands as a p . i .  but that's easier said than done , for also standing in the way of shaft and his way of justice is peoples hernandez ( jeffrey wright ) , a dominican gangster who is hired by walter to rub out waitress diane palmieri ( toni collette ) , the only eyewitness to his crime .  peoples--or , rather , wright is also the big obstacle in jackson's way toward commanding this film .  peoples is more of an outrageous comic character for most of the running time , and wright is insanely funny during these stages .  however , he isn't so funny as to make the character come off as goofy and buffoonish , and peoples' eventual turn to more serious villainy is seamless and believable ( which probably would not have been the case had he been played by original casting choice john leguizamo , who bowed out before filming ) .  it's no easy task to steal a film from the jackson ( who is his usual captivating , charismatic self here ) , but that's exactly what wright does--and makes it seem effortless .  then again , with such a talented ensemble surrounding him , it is not too surprising that jackson's impressive star turn doesn't quite tower over the rest ; he is strongly complemented not only by wright but all his other co-stars .  bale has already proven his ability to play an uppity killer in _american_psycho_ , so it only follows that his performance as a similar , less exaggerated character would be spot-on .  collette lends the film some convincing and welcome dramatic weight as the frightened , conflicted diane .  busta rhymes brings some good laughs as shaft's sidekick rasaan .  registering not as strongly--but through no fault of their own--are vanessa williams ( as tough narcotics cop carmen vasquez ) and a dismayingly underused roundtree ; they simply are given little to do in the script credited to richard price , singleton , and shane salerno .   ( jackson also has little to " do " in a sense ; some throwaway footage during the opening credits aside , his shaft doesn't even have one sex scene . )  that singleton once again proves his ability with actors is an especially good thing since he's not really an action director .  this is not to say that he does a bad job with the numerous gunfights and the requisite foot and car chases .  they move well ( as does the film as a whole ) and are reasonably exciting ; it's just that there's nothing terribly inventive about them .  these set pieces are functional in the way the script is : they work well enough , but they're unsurprising and conventional .  but if there's anything that a _shaft_ movie does well , it's make the familiar look cool--and this _shaft_ keeps that tradition alive .  from the slick title sequence--scored , of course , to isaac hayes' ever-infectious oscar-winning theme song , which singleton wisely sprinkles throughout the film--on , the film looks great and easily sweeps the viewer into its world with its energetic bravado .  even a common visual trick such as employing fancy wipes for scene transitions not only feels unforced , it feels necessary .  style doesn't exactly make for a great film , but when it comes to _shaft_ , that's of little consequence .  what matters above all else is having a good time , and the latest _shaft_ should be just the first of many fun rides to be had with this bad mutha--shut your mouth . 
neg@ the formula is simple .  trap a varied group of people on an isolated location , then pop in a seemingly unstoppable monster to kill them one by one .  these have been the successful ingredients for many good films ( the thing , alien , aliens , and tremors to name a few ) .  so , why is it that so many films following this recipe end up pathetically bad ?   ( see the relic for a particularly putrid example . )  perhaps it is simply too easy to forget the necessary binding ingredient : effort and ideas .  deep rising meets these two requirements part way , but not enough to salvage the film .  treat williams is finnegan , the leader of a small boat crew who hire out their services ( and their boat ) for any activity . . . no  questions asked .  this time , however , they may have gone too far .  their passengers , led by the ominous wes studi , are the type of multi-national terrorist squads usually only seen in die hard films .  and their cargo . . . let's  just say it has very high explosive potential .  what is the target of these thieves ?  why , the argonauticus , of course , a high tech luxury cruise yacht on its maiden voyage .  but something else is hunting the argonauticus . . . something  ancient and deadly .  by the time the thieves arrive , nearly everyone on board the ship has been killed .  and now the creature senses fresh meat !  so , you have the thieves and their mercenary boat crew , joining forces with the surviving passengers ( including the ship owner canton ( anthony heald ) , and a thief with less lofty goals , trillian ( famke janssen ) ) against the terror from the deep .  and the monster gets to pick them off one by one .  fortunately for the creature , this particular band of criminals happens to be the dumbest the world can offer .  why else would they indulge in petty squabbling while they watch their friends become fish food .  if there's a more clarion call for unity , i don't know what it might be .  it's pretty easy to guess who will get killed off when .  there are no surprises in that the most interesting characters seem to last until the end .  for the most part , the watery tentacles seem to be acting on the audience's impulses to get rid of the most boring characters first .   ( although i wonder if the filmmakers might have extended djimon hounsou's life a bit if they knew this would be released so soon after his acclaim for amistad . )  treat williams is a passable hero , and famke janssen does her best julia roberts impersonation .  but while wes studi and anthony heald are particularly slimy , very little of the rest of the company stand out in any way .  the biggest treat in the film , however , has to be pantucci , kevin j . o'connor's whining engine-boy , under finnegan's employ .  his constant quips may be a bit over-written , but they manage to capture the same vein of nerve-addled humor that bill paxton delivered as hudson in aliens ( or todd graff as hippie in the abyss , for that matter ) .  it's just a stock part ( the comic-relief character ) , but it almost makes this tired alien clone bearable .  as far as the monster goes , although the cgi is done well , the creature has no logical consistency .  think back to the great ( or even just good ) movie monsters .  they all had a set of " rules " about what they could do , and how and why they would do it .  part of the joy of those films was slowly discovering , along with the heroes , just what those rules are .  the tentacle monster in deep rising doesn't have a set of rules . . .  or if it does , not a very good one .  it merely eats ( or drinks , as the case may be ) , and there is no rhyme or reason for what it does in order to do so .  the film never explains why the argonauticus is attacked in the first place .  it simply happens .  the action scenes are decent , but few are noteworthy .  the film definitely does suffer from its proximity to titanic .  deep rising's peril in the water scenes pale next to cameron's ( but can you really blame them ) .  unfortunately , deep rising's efforts are more on par with speed 2 .  on the plus side , however , the film's closing image shows some promise for a potentially interesting ( but unlikely ) sequel .  perhaps you'd be better off waiting for that one . 
pos@ earth is a harsh , unconsoling drama about the time when india gained independence from britain and the ensuing turmoil that engulfed the subcontinent .  people who supposedly loved the same land and the same god found themselves in bitter conflict , as the country divided into factions fighting in the streets : indian and pakistani ; muslim , hindu , sikh , parsee .  the story takes place in lahore , which was indian before partition , and pakistani afterward , regardless of what its citizens might call themselves .  the action is seen through the eyes of lenny ( maaia sethna ) , a young parsee girl , but it is really about her nanny , shanta .  shanta has a small circle of male admirers .  two of the men are suitors : hasan ( rahul khanna ) , a hindu , and dil navaz ( aamir khan ) , a muslim .  the others--sikh , hindu , muslim--are older ; some are married ; but all appreciate shanta , who is played by the stirringly beautiful nandita das .   ( she also starred in deepa mehta's previous film , fire , the first part of a thematic trilogy which will conclude with water . )  in an early scene , the men are sitting in a park talking with shanta and lenny ; political tension in the country is growing as the day of independence nears .  one of the men remarks , jokingly , that their little group is probably one of the last places in the city where the different religions can still get along .  he is wrong : the men make barbed little comments to each other , spoken like jokes , but with an undercurrent of fanaticism .  the tenor of these exchanges grows darker and more bitter as the movie progresses .  it is easy to perceive , in these squabbles , the trajectory which ends in mass violence and slaughter .  the group around shanta represents , in a sense , a united india , and shanta herself the ideal motherland--one which all love , which inspires hindu , muslim , and sikh to live peacably together .  but the circle around shanta is sundered , as is the state .  a sikh is persecuted , hides , then flees .  another man is murdered .  the group of friends will not meet again .  the movie is rife with images of breakage and destruction : a plate shattered on the floor , a stuffed toy torn apart by an upset child , and , most brutally , when the tension escalates into violence , a man is held down , tied between two cars , and ripped in half by the opposing movement of the vehicles .  it is a visceral and effective metaphor for a country which is being destroyed just as painfully .  the crux of earth's plot is the transformation undergone by dil navaz .  his sisters are killed in brutal fashion , by hindus , because they are muslim .  dil navaz seeks solace from shanta , and asks in desperation that she marry him .  but she loves hasan , and tenderly refuses dil navaz's offer .  the combination of familial anguish and romantic rejection twists inside him , and it is easy to see how he is seduced by the growing mob mentality : the muslim cause gives him a motive to vent his anger and hate .  despite the things he later does , it is to the credit of earth that it does not simply denounce dil navaz and those like him , but shows how circumstances can make decent enough men do monstrous things .  the conclusion--the consequence of dil navaz's transformation--is rather abrupt .  the story earth tells does not end .  it just stops .  it is an appropriate finish : giving us closure would have imparted , at least on an aesthetic level , a sense of resolution , of satisfaction .  but there was no resolution for india and pakistan--they have been at war , on a small or large scale , for decades .  since the personal dramas in earth mirror the political struggles of a nation , it is only right that those dramas should have no terminus .  there is no healing to be had , no closure , on any level ( despite the needless , tacked-on ending , with voice-over narration from lenny as an adult , framing the story ) .  earth is , in some ways , an unexceptional movie .  it does not reinvent the wheel , following instead the standard pattern of historical dramas .  but deepa mehta's directon is assured , and the issues she addresses run deep .  earth does for india what movies like zhang yimou's to live and tian zhuangzhuang's the blue kite did for china : they show us the agonies endured by unremarkable people who had the bad luck to be caught up and smashed in the crucible of history .  such films strike me as inherently valuable , even when flawed .  they may be biased or inaccurate , but they bear the weight of human hardship , and this confers on them a nobility and gravity which other , more inventive films , often lack .  it is notable that all three movies were banned in their native countries : the events shown may have happened decades ago , but they still touch a nerve .  the issues tackled in earth have a particular urgency in light of the nuclear test bombings that took place last year .  in the near future , india and pakistan may launch nuclear missiles at each other .  at the time of the tests i had some understanding of the reasons why this might happen ; after seeing earth , i have a much , much better understanding . 
neg@ this movie tries to present itself as the sequel to jan de bont's debut as a director , 1994 surprise hit speed .  but the only thing the two movies have in common is sandra bullock as the female lead .  annie ( sandra bullock ) is in the wrong place at the wrong time again .  she's going on a cruise with her new boy-friend alex ( jason patric ) , and of course it is her ship that is kidnapped by john geiger ( willem dafoe ) who has a bone to pick with the shipping line .  they sacked him after he got sick .  now he wants the diamonds stored in the ship's safe for compensation .  that actually is the whole storyline .  speed 2 could do without dialogues .  the movie is all about images and remarkable sound .  i don't really know why this is called an action movie .  except for a few scenes that are vaguely reminiscent of speed this goes along the lines of the desaster movies of the 70ies .  first we are introduced to a number of people who are going to be important later on in the movie .  then desaster strikes .  sandra bullock was said to have been glad that she could take action this time around .  i looked for the " action " but couldn't find it .  most of the time she is part of the decoration .  the only time she is part of what happens is when she can have a shot at defusing a bomb and freeing some passengers trapped behind a fire door .  now we know that she can handle a chain saw .  we also know that fire doors on cruise ships can be cut apart in seconds .  the bomb defusal of course goes wrong , but only the furniture is damaged , not our heroes who still are needed .  jason patric alias alex spends most of his time flirting with annie , helping other passengers and frolicking in the water .  his initial sea-sickness is suddenly gone , because there are ship , crew and passengers to be saved from evil geiger .  he does a pretty good job but i can't blame keanu reeves for declining this part .  then there's willem dafoe , the villain , who desperately tries to look as frightening as frankenstein's monster .  he doesn't succeed , though .  an untidy appearance isn't enough to convince the viewer of his psychopath potential .  before he tries again to make us believe he is a dangerous man he should practise for a while in front of a mirror .  i can't really recommend speed 2 . you will probably like the movie if you like funny situations that aren't meant to be funny .  especially the showdown , when the ship first runs into an oil tanker and then dissembles a whole village is a treat .  there you get to see the most superfluous scene in the movie .  in keeping with last year's desaster movie tradition a dog is miraculously saved from certain death .  a really funny ( and meant to be funny ) scene takes place on the oil tanker right before the collision .  some crew members watch two ships colliding in an old movie .  had they looked out the window they wouldn't have missed the huge ship racing toward them .  those of you who still want to see the movie should pick a theater with a large screen and a good sound system to enjoy the visual effects and the phantastic surround sound effects .  in an adequately equipped theater it's as if the explosion were going off all around you and you can feel the seats vibrate .  but the ilm special effects can't save the movie .  for all the money they could have done better . 
pos@ there is nothing like american history x in theaters or on video .  no other feature film takes such a cold hard look at the lure , the culture , and the brotherhood of white supremacy .  nice guy ed norton jr . ( who sang in everyone says i love you ) plays derek , a twenty-year old skinhead .  dad's subtle racism grew large in derek , after gang members killed his father .  dad was fighting a fire when they shot him .  now derek keeps his head shaved and has a giant swastika tattooed over his heart .  derek is more interested in the ideas of white supremacy than in its culture of violence .  at a basketball court , black and white tempers flare .  derek channels the aggression into a game , black versus white , for ownership of the courts .  when the choice presents itself , derek goes for game point instead of the sucker-punch .  cameron ( stacy keach ) steps in to derek's life as a surrogate father .  he takes derek under his wing and nurtures his racist feelings .  keeping his own criminal record spotless , he uses derek as a leader and organizer for high-visibility racial intimidation .  derek obliges by leading his younger and dumber friends in race-motivated mob crimes .  at the bottom of the chain , derek's younger brother danny ( edward furlong , made famous in terminator 2 ) joins the skinheads not for ideological or intellectual reasons , but because he admires his brother and he wants to belong .  one night three black youths break into derek's truck , which is exactly what derek has been waiting for .  outside in his shorts and his tattoo , he shoots them all .  the third would-be thief , unarmed , is only wounded .  in the key scene of the film , derek commands the kid into a position where he can be killed with one glorious , enraptured , awful stomp .   ( the fun-spoiling nc-17 of orgazmo seems even more inappropriate , considering american history x was rated r . what sort of country is this that says sex comedies are a bigger threat to our youth than brutal , ecstatic violence ? )  the police arrive just as derek kills the last thief .  derek does not resist the cops , and as they spin him around to cuff him , the film slows down .  derek raises his eyebrows and smiles at his little brother in a chilling , sadistic , satisfied grin .  now in prison , derek faces new challenges .  as the black man in the laundry tells him , " in the joint , you the nigra , not me . "  there is a clique of swastika-wearing skinheads , but they are not interested in the ideology of white supremacy .  they only use the symbols as a means of intimidation .  derek finds himself truly alone , truly in danger , and truly afraid .  when derek finally gets out of prison , he finds that his friends from the gang have also changed .  without derek's leadership , they have shunned the white supremacist ideology for the white supremacist culture .  it is the final factor that makes him realize how badly he's screwed up .  in the end , he spends quality time with is brother trying to undo the respect and admiration he had earlier inspired in danny .  the film ends a little too deliberately , too neatly after the unchained emotion and violent glee of the rest of the film , but it barely detracts from the overall experience .  edward norton gives an oscar-worthy performance .  although some of his dialogue seemed to be written without enough conviction , norton's performance compensated .   ( an example that comes to mind is his pep talk before looting the store . )  he also captured the essence of an older brother .  he took his responsibility as a role model to his younger brother very seriously , very lovingly , both before and after his change of heart .  though clearly not for all tastes , this film is bold and daring .  the subject matter is ugly , cruel , and at times hard to look at .  nevertheless its subjects are part of humanity's great face .  kaye gives us a good look at this fascinating , if distasteful , american subculture . 
neg@ lucas was wise to start his star wars trilogy with episode 4 : episode 1 is a boring , empty spectacle that features some nice special effects .  after the familiar 'a long time ago . . . . '  opening , the film starts with the opening yellow crawl that features in every star wars movie and computer game .  the plot is that the trade confederation are blocking off supplies to the peaceful planet of naboo , ruled by queen amidala ( portman ) jedi knights qui-gon ( neeson ) and obi wan ( mcgregor ) are sent to negotiate a deal with the confederation to stop the blockade .  however , this simple blockade is not all it seems , and the jedi knights soon have to deal with many more dangers , including facing the evil darth maul ( ray park . )  they also meet the future darth vadar , anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd )  star wars is largely a failure in all the major areas of filmmaking : script , direction and characters .  the script desperately tries to make an thin and boring story into a two hour epic .  the trade confederation plot is just not as exciting as the death star , and as the film goes on the drama becomes more and more non-existent .  there's no underlying tension , and no urgent need to see what the outcome is .  the film also takes a leisurely pace in telling the boring story , which doesn't help .  there's no snap to make the film work , it moves at a plod .  the script is boring : all the characters speak in morals , especially anakins mother .  there's no group spirit evident here , and when all characters can speak only in profound statements or bark orders , it's evident that not much is going to happen .  the two leads are hideously boring , static characters given little to do and too much time to do it .  qui-gon and obi-wan hold no presence on film , and give little for the audience to root for .  the audience will probably warm more to bad guy darth maul , if he had been given more screen time .  maul is one of the most underused bad guys in film history , even if he does provide the only 'straight' plot line in the film ( all the other plots in this film are to be concluded throughout the trilogy . )  anakin is annoying and unlikeable . ,  instead of cute and huggable as lucas no doubt intended .  it's probably not surprising that his hateful little boy , unfortunately blessed 'ani' by everyone he knows , joins the dark side and kills everyone as quickly as possible .  the comedy relief is supposedly provided by the gangly jar jar brinks , although in the end none is provided in the film by him .  although his floppy features will no doubt be great for stuffed toys , the lines and actions he is given are painfully unfunny .  the only good laugh is when his tongue is burned by a 'pod' racer , because i knew he wouldn't be able to talk for a while .  queen amidala is a nothing in the film , she serves no real purpose apart from the fact that she must 'serve her people , ' and go goo-goo over anakin .  again , her role will become more important in the later episodes , and is given little to do here .  the actors don't help the movie much either .  liam neeson seems bored and embarrassed , and seems desperate to leave the movie as quickly as possible .  mcgregor comes across as a posh mothers boy , with little charm .  the casting director must have chose him because he's scottish like alec guinness : there's little other explanation for it .  natalie portman is plagued by hideous costumes and a poor script , but she delivers a spunky performance .  and jake lloyd looks at everyone with hateful eyes and delivers his lines in a bored voice .  there's very little talent evident with him , it's hard to see why lucas chose him when there are better child actors out there .  he's not even very 'cute . '  the main claim of the film , the special effects , are okay .  there's nothing impressive about them , yet they complement the story well .  the cgi takes away much of the human element , however .  the battle droids for example , the replacement for the stormtroopers , are characterless little computer graphics , lacking the humour and humanness that came from the stormtroopers .  episode 1 is just disappointing .  it's got high production values , but little else .  the music is meandering , except near the end .  the plot gives us no-one to root for , or even care for .  the effects are nice , but dull .  the plot goes on for half an hour longer than it should .  there's an air of manufacturing among the whole sorry affair , and many clich ? s are catered for throughout the film .  apart from a remotely exciting pod race sequence , episode 1 is a dry affair that serves little purpose , except to make money and to get us to watch episode 2 to see what happens to the many unfinished plot lines in the film .  disappointing is barely the word .  rating= 
pos@ in the opening shot of midnight cowboy , we see a close-up of a blank movie screen at a drive-in .  we hear in the soundtrack human cries and the stomping of horses' hooves .  without an image projected onto the screen , the audience unerringly identifies the familiar sound of cowboys chasing indians and can spontaneously fill in the blank screen with images of old westerns in our mind's eye .  even without having seen a cowboys and indians movie , somehow the cliched images of them seem to have found their way into our mental schema .  but do cowboys really exist , or are they merely hollywood images personified by john wayne and gary cooper ?  exploring this theme , director john schlesinger uses the idea of the cowboy as a metaphor for the american dream , an equally cliched yet ambiguous concept .  is the ease at which salvation and success can be attained in america a hallmark of its experience or an urban legend ?  midnight cowboy suggests that the american dream , like image of the cowboy , is merely a myth .  as joe buck migrates from place to place , he finds neither redemption nor reward in his attempt to create a life for himself , only further degeneration .  during the opening credits , joe walks past an abandoned theater whose decrepit marquee reads `john wayne : the alamo . '  as joe is on the bus listening to a radio talk show , a lady on the air describes her ideal man as `gary cooper ? but he's dead . '  a troubled expression comes across joe's face , as he wonders where have all the cowboys gone .  having adopted the image of a cowboy since youth , joe now finds himself deserted by the persona he tried to embody .  joe's persistence in playing the act of the cowboy serves as an analogue to his american dream .  he romanticizes about making it in the big city , but his dreams will desert him as he is forced to compromise his ideals for sustenance .  by the end of midnight cowboy , joe buck loses everything and gains nothing .  just as the audience can picture cowboys chasing indians on a blank screen , we can also conjure up scenes from pretty woman as paradigms of american redemption and success .  but how realistic are these ideals ?  joe had raped and been raped in texas .  the scars of his troubled past prompt him to migrate to new york , but he does not know that his aspirations to be a cowboy hero will fail him there just as they had in texas .  alongside the dream of success is the dream of salvation .  the ability to pack up one's belongings and start anew seems to be an exclusive american convention .  schlesinger provides us with strong hints as to joe's abusive and abused past with flashbacks of improper relationships with crazy anne and granny .  we understand that joe adopts the fa ? ade of a cowboy , a symbol of virility and gallantry , as an attempt to neutralize his shame .  he runs from his past only to be sexually defiled this time by his homosexual experiences in new york .  in the scene at the diner which foreshadows joe's encounter with the gay student , joe buck spills ketchup on himself .  standing up , we see the ketchup has made a red stain running from the crotch of his pants down his thigh .  schlesinger visually depicts the degeneration of joe's virility by eliciting an image of bleeding genitals , signifying emasculation .  beyond the symbol of castration , the scene may also connote the bleeding of a virgin's first sexual encounter , a reference to joe's first homosexual liaison .  the fact that the idea of a bleeding virgin is relegated only to females furthers the imagery of joe's emasculation .  it is ironic that joe has trouble prospecting for female clients , but effortlessly attracts men .  joe believes his broncobuster getup is emblematic of his masculinity ; new yorkers see his ensemble as camp and `faggot stuff . '  there are two predominant images of new york .  the first is that new york is the rich , cosmopolitan city where hope and opportunity are symbolized by the tall skyscrapers and the statue of liberty .  the other new york is travis bickle's new york , a seedy , corruptive hell on earth .  joe envisions new york as the former , but is presented with the latter .  mirroring the irony in which joe envisions his cowboy attire as masculine , he mistakenly buys into the fable that new york is filled with lonely women neglected by gay men .  joe thinks he is performing a great service for new york , but the city rapes him of his pride and possessions .  the people steal joe's money , the landlord confiscates his luggage , and the homosexuals rob him of his dignity .  what has become of joe's american dream ?  schlesinger responds to this question with the scene at the party .  joe gets invited to a shindig of sorts and at the gathering is exposed to a dizzying array of food , drugs , and sex .  at the party , all of joe and ratzo's desires are made flesh ; joe flirts successfully with women and ratzo loads up on free salami .  contrasting joe's daily struggles , shots of warhol's crew display wanton indulgence .  there is an irreverence in the partygoers' attitude ; we see a shot of a woman kowtowing to nothing in particular , orgies breaking out in the periphery , and drugs passed around like party favors .  the party makes a mockery of joe' s ideals .  joe believed that hard work and persistence were the elements for success in america ; scenes of the party and his rendezvous with shirley suggest that it is the idle who profit from joe's toils .  the american dream , schlesinger suggests , is merely a proletarian fantasy , for those who are content no longer dream , but become indolent .  as joe heads to miami , all that was significant of the cowboy image has left him .  his masculinity is compromised and his morality is relinquished .  for joe , nothing is left of the cowboy hero and commensurately , he surrenders the identity .  tossing his boots into the garbage , he returns to the bus for the last leg of his journey to miami .  the final shot of midnight cowboy shows joe inside the bus , more introspective , taking only a few glances outside the window .  instead of the frequent pov shots of joe excitedly looking out of the bus on his way to new york , schlesinger sets up this final shot from the exterior of the bus looking in through the window at joe .  reflections of the palm trees ratzo so raved about run across the bus' window with joe hardly taking notice .  the scenery of miami no longer exacts the same excitement from joe as before .  the world seems smaller to joe now ; the termination of his journey coincides with the termination of his american dream .  no longer does joe aspire to be the enterprising gigolo ; he resolves to return to a normal job and resign to basic means .  midnight cowboy presents two familiar incarnations of the american dream .  there is the frontier fantasy that if you are brave enough to repel a few indians , you can set up a ranch out west and raise a beautiful family .  then there is the jay gatsby dream that a man of humble stock , with perseverance , can make a fortune in the big city .  joe's attempt to realize these dreams robs him of his innocence in texas and morality in new york .  during his search for an intangible paradise , joe ends up raping a girl and killing a man .  an allegory of chasing the promise of the american dream , joe buck's progressive moral atrophy is a warning against the pursuit of illusory icons . 
neg@ i think we should , as responsible citizens , all get together and stop jim carrey from making another movie .  he's changing the cinema as we know it--and for the worst .  i would willingly rewatch batman and robin rather then again sit through this miserable collection of filmic moments--prologues , epilogues , etc . the premise : a lawyer can't lie for a day .  ho , ho .  normally a movie made from this premise would be terrible--mr .  carrey suceeds in making it unwatchable .  i laughed once--and i was laughing at the sight of everyone else laughing .  grinding doesn't begin to describe .  it pounds on your head so forcefully and so unstoppably that , if you are a normal person , you leave feeling sick .  when it's not trying to be funny , it's trying to be melodramatic--but it's just annoying , stupid and sappy .  at best .  this movie is intended to make people laugh , yes , not to be voted best picture of all time by sight and sound .  but , it fails on every possible level .  it fails to be funny .  it fails to be insightful .  it fails to be suspensful .  it fails to be fun .  they should pay people to see it .  it suceeds on one level--it makes me want to get down on the ground and start thanking orson welles , for having lived .  if you go in with the intention of coming out alive , please make sure that you are overly fond of boob , fart , pimple and fat jokes--otherwise you will go insane .  yes , literally insane .  stark , raving mad .  it is boring , stupid , melodramatic and in the end ugly .  i reccemond it strongly .  to ed wood . 
pos@  " very bad things , " is the most delightfully morbid film of the year , a movie that goes so far over the deep end with its outrageousness and violence that i couldn't help but be won over by the material .  the film starts off with five friends leaving their homes in los angeles for a bachelor party in las vegas .  the groom-to-be is kyle fisher ( jon favreau ) , who is about to be married to the controlling , wedding-obsessed laura ( cameron diaz ) .  the other friends are real estate agent robert boyd ( christian slater ) , quiet charles ( leland orser ) , and brothers , michael ( jeremy piven ) and family man adam ( daniel stern ) .  after a wild night of gambling , boozing , and drugs , a stripper ( carla scott ) who was paid for by robert comes into their hotel room , but after a freak accident , to everyone's terror , she is killed .  as robert puts it : " there are two options : go to the police and go to prison , or bury her out in the desert where no one will ever find her . "  after a security guard enters into the hotel room unexpectantly and sees the body , robert is forced to kill him as well .   " okay , there is only one option now .  you can forget about calling the police , " he says .  by the time the five friends return home and as the wedding draws nearer , most of them are overcome with guilt , which sets off an even more elaborate series of event , that includes much , much more murder , double-crosses , and the inevitable wedding from hell .   " very bad things , " which is actor peter berg's feature film directing debut , is the shockingly perverse and wicked comedy that , " there's something about mary , " wanted to be .  it pulls out all the stops to create something fresh , original , and hilarious , even if that requires surprisingly graphic violence , gore , and a slew of truly hateful characters that all get what they deserve by the end .  the screenplay , also written by berg , is , to put it mildly , very funny and courageous .  during the second act of the film , some of the fun was beginning to slightly dwindle due to so much death , which was beginning to undermine the humor , but it eventually recouped itself with a climax that has to be seen to be believed .  the dialogue is edgy and inventive , and this film proves that a movie doesn't necessarily require likable character to be extremely enjoyable .  there's more fun , i think , in showing ignorable people getting their just desserts .  cameron diaz gives her best performance to date here , and has a lot of fun in playing the hateful laura , who eventually turns out to be more crazy than any of the five male friends .  diaz puts so much overblown energy to her character that i really do think she deserves a supporting actress oscar nomination come next january .  by the time she is beating someone to death with a coat hanger , and reciting lines like , " stuff him in the crapper and get your ass upstairs , " i couldn't help but crack up at how " balls-to-the-wall " this film had become .  jeanne tripplehorn creates another character original , as daniel stern's wife , who late in the picture , we discover , is a tough kick-boxer that should not be messed around with .  it is at this level that , " very bad things , " was so entertaining and surprising .  just when you thought you could predict what was going to happen , there would be a little twist involving the characters that would be absolutely wacky .  the last sequence was perfect and managed to go even further over-the-top .  although i enjoyed the film immensely , let me make this clear : " very bad things , " is not a movie for everyone .  it is more tasteless than anything i have ever seen , it is more violent and bloody than a r-rated film usually is , and it is offensive .  luckily , these are elements that i would prefer in a comedy , since it clearly shows the filmmakers were set on making a no-holds-barred , politically incorrect comedy .  the fact that this film slipped through the cracks of the usually mainstream and " safe " wide-releases coming out lately , still gives me hope for the hollywood film industry . 
neg@ long time buddies and neil diamond tribute band members wayne ( steve zahn , " happy , texas " ) and j . d . ( jack black , " high fidelity " ) watch in horror as third mate darren silverman ( jason biggs , " american pie " ) disappears under the thumb of his new fiance judith , ( amanda peet , " the whole nine yards " ) a controlling psychiatrist .  they're doubly troubled when the return of darren's 'one and only love' sandy perkins ( amanda detmer , " final destination " ) returns to their home town but doesn't cause a ripple in darren's devotion to judith .  there's only one thing wayne and j . d . can think of doing - they kidnap judith and fake her death in " saving silverman . "  written by hank nelken and greg depaul after seeing a friend engaged to the wrong woman , " saving silverman " is directed by 'hit comedy director' dennis dugan of such films as " big daddy , " " brain donors " and " problem child . "  it's a dismal , third-rate farrelly brothers rip off that attempts to milk humor from such inspired bits of whimsy as having darren's love interest come from a family of circus freaks and be about to become a nun .  gross out gags include a visualization of darren getting butt cheek implants .   " saving silverman " is almost saved by stars zahn and black .  these two are so comically talented they can take bad material and still deliver the goods .  they're in " animal house " mode while the rest of the film trawls along and comes up empty .  jason biggs can attribute his entire career to the luck of having been cast in the smash hit " american pie . "  peet shows some physical moves but no flair for comedy here while detmer slaps a brave , sweet smile onto her face and soldiers through .  r . lee ermey ( " full metal jacket " ) is one note in an embarrassing performance as a psychopathic ex-football coach .  neil diamond appears at the film's climax as himself and miraculously enlivens the proceedings by belting out some of his old standards . 
pos@ when i first heard that romeo & juliet had been " updated " i shuddered .  i thought that yet another of shakespeare's classics had been destroyed .  fortunately , i was wrong .  baz luhrman has directed an " in your face " , and visually stunning piece with this film .  it revolves around the two rival families , who in this version each run multi-million dollar enterprises .  these rival companies/families are the capulet's and the montague's .  the younger generation of these two families have formed gangs , who despise one another .  as the storylines goes , romeo montague ( played by leonardo dicaprio ) and juliet capulet ( claire danes ) meet at a fancy dress party , and it is love at first site .  i never believed love at first site was possible until i saw this film , the scene in which romeo's eyes meet juliet's through the fish tank is one of the most memorable .  of course , they cannot publicly reveal their love , for their families are arch enemies .  so they marry in secret , this is where things begin to go wrong .  the story , as with all good shakespeare , ends in tragedy .  the cinematography is spectacular to say the least , and the soundtrack provides the perfect atmosphere in which to " lay our scene " , as the film says .  there is very little to criticise .  the performances are convincing , and several of the film's younger stars may find that it provides a launch for their careers .  the modernisation of the script is ingenious and clever .  despite the well known storyline , this latest version still manages to cause tears among many members of the audience ( especially the younger generation ) , and this is certainly a great credit to the film . 
neg@ sydney lumet is the director whose work happens to be of varied quality .  he is praised for some of the most important films of the previous decades , like twelve angry men , serpico or the verdict .  but , in the same time , almost any of such pearls is followed by stinkers that hamper lumet's reputation .  a stranger among us , 1992 rip-off of peter weir's witness , belongs to the latter category .  the heroine of this movie is emily eden ( melanie griffith ) , tough lady cop who sometimes shows too much enthusiasm in battling bad guys on the streets of new york .  during one of such actions , her partner nick ( jamey sheridan ) got hurt and as a result , she becomes depressed .  in order to help her recover , bosses give her rather easy task of locating missing jeweller who belonged to hassidic jew community .  emily starts investigation and soon realises that the case involves murder .  concluding that the perpetrator belongs to community , she decides to go undercover .  that isn't easy , because her modern manners are colliding with traditionalist ways .  things get even more complicated when she develops feelings for young cabalistic scholar ariel ( eric thal ) .  using peter weir's formula isn't the greatest flaw of this film .  even the lame and unispiring crime mystery subplot works to the certain extent .  but the worst insult to viewer's audience is terrible miscasting of melanie griffith .  the author of this review never liked this actress very much , but she was at least tolerable in some of her roles .  role of emily eden , unfortunately , isn't one of them .  first of all , she can't pass for tough nypd street fighter , and her attempt to pass for orthodox jewish woman isn't much better .  screenplay by robert j . avrech makes things even worse with some formulaic red herring subplots ( scene involving two italian gangsters was almost too painful to watch ) .  but , on the other hand , other actors are more convincing ( lee richardson as an old rabbi , thal as ariel and charming mia sara as his intended bride ) , and the photography by andrzej bartkowiak very effectively creates atmosphere of warmth when the scenes take place in hassidic community .  also , the film might educate viewers about hassidic culture .  that is the only thing that prevents it from turning into total waste of time . 
pos@ brian depalma needs a hit * really * badly .  since scoring big with the untouchables in 1987 , depalma has seen casualties of war , raising cain and particularly the disastrous bonfire of the vanities go down in flames .  consequently , it would be easy enough to consider carlito's way a shrewd commercial choice for depalma , reteaming with al pacino ( scarface ) and returning to the gangland ground which has yielded his two greatest box office successes .  it doesn't hurt any that he has latched on to a solid story and brought out dynamite performances from pacino and sean penn .  carlito's way , while hampered by depalma's characteristic excesses and stylistic cannibalism , is a truly tense and engrossing drama .  carlito brigante ( pacino ) is a life-long criminal who finds himself unexpectedly given a second chance .  in 1975 , carlito is released from prison after serving only five years of a thirty year sentence when his conviction is overturned on a technicality .  he declares himself reformed , tired of life on the streets and determined to fulfill his simple dream of buying into a rental car business in the bahamas .  among those who find this conversion hard to believe are david kleinfeld ( penn ) , carlito's crooked attorney and childhood friend , and bodyguard pachanga ( luis guzman ) .  carlito rediscovers old flame gail ( penelope ann miller ) , and seems ready to retire in peace .  old ways die hard , though , and old associates pull carlito step by step back into a life he can't seem to shake .  carlito's way will probably make the strongest impression with the two outstanding set pieces which bracket the film .  in the first , carlito accompanies his young cousin on a drug buy which will have anyone with a pulse on the edge of their seat ; the film closes with an equally thrilling chase through the new york subway and grand central station .  both highlight depalma's gift for choreographed mayhem , and these are not the only occasions when the stage blood flows freely .  yet for all the viscera , i found the character study even more compelling .  carlito brigante has a lot of michael corleone in him , an aging gangster trying unsuccessfully to go legit .  but where the culmination of the godfather saga played like opera , there's more of an immediacy to carlito's way , an ever-present sense of doom launched by the title sequence which sets the flashback story in motion .  you sense that there's no way , after so many years , that carlito can stay out of trouble .  indeed , he observes that his attempt at the straight life is more a function of time than a change of heart : " you don't get reformed ; you just run out of wind . "  pacino captures carlito's dilemma with surprising subtlety and the cautious observation borne of years of experience watching every corner for an enemy .  sean penn is even better , turning in his best performance to date as kleinfeld .  a jew in the world of puerto rican and italian wiseguys , kleinfeld is an outsider with a huge chip on his shoulder .  he could have been simply pathetic , a heavy drinker and cocaine addict playing tough with guys way out of his league , but penn invests kleinfeld with tremendous nervous energy and an overwhelming survival instinct .  he shows a man moving steadily towards the brink , making the moment he goes over quite jolting .  as compelling as the narrative is , viewers may experience a profound sense of deja vu .  depalma continues to steal shamelessly from other directors , this time adding scorsese to his repertoire with a point of view tracking shot and a copacabana scene with more than passing resemblances to goodfellas .  he even recycles some of his own previous plagiarisms , like a 360 degree swing around a kiss ( vertigo via body double ) and the climactic shootout which will strike many as far too reminiscent of the train station sequence from the untouchables .  from a story standpoint , there's an obligatory love story with a cliche'd long-suffering girlfriend character .  penelope ann miller is a good but limited actor who doesn't do anything new with the role , and eventually she becomes just a distraction , never integrated fully enough into the story .  still , it's easier to be forgiving of superficial flaws when the backbone is so solid .  the two principle characters held an iron grip on my attention , one all the cinematic thievery in the world couldn't break .  carlito's way plays like a tragic novel : deliberate , confident and powerful .  those willing to grant depalma his tendencies towards the extreme should find themselves well- rewarded . 
neg@ it's a good thing most animated sci-fi movies come from japan , because " titan a . e . " is proof that hollywood doesn't have a clue how to do it .  i don't know what this film is supposed to be about .  from what i can tell it's about a young man named kale who's one of the last survivors of earth in the early 31st century who unknowingly possesses the key to saving and re-generating what is left of the human race .  that's a fine premise for an action-packed sci-fi animated movie , but there's no payoff .  the story takes the main characters all over the galaxy in their search for a legendary ship that the evil " dredge " aliens want to destroy for no apparent reason .  so in the process we get a lot of spaceship fights , fistfights , blaster fights and more double-crosses than you can shake a stick at .  there's so much pointless sci-fi banter it's too much to take .  the galaxy here is a total rip-off of the " star wars " universe the creators don't bother filling in the basic details which makes the story confusing , the characters unmotivated and superficial and the plot just plain boring .  despite the fantastic animation and special effects , it's just not an interesting movie . 
pos@ director jan de bont certainly knows how to make top quality action films .  you need look no further than die hard ( he was director of photography ) , speed and last years twister for examples of his hi- octane , edge of your seat thrill prowess .  speed 2 is no exception .  this time , the action takes place on a huge cruise liner , on which sandra bullock and jason patrick are trying to develop their relationship .  yep , that's right , no keanu reeves this time , but fear not , jason patrick is more than up to the job .  speaking of which , the job at hand is to stop completely bonkers terrorist , willem dafoe , from crashing the liner into a huge island , after stealing a diamond collection .  the reason for this act of destruction is revenge .  after years of working for the company that builds cruise liner computers , he contracts copper poisoning and is retired .  naturally , what entails next is a lot of running/jumping about and general high quality action as jason patrick does his level best to save the day .  thinking back on this film , you can't help , but admire it's structure .  the way , willem dafoe initiates his plan and throws red herrings to the crew and passengers .  the race against time to save the liner from crashing , and of course , the finale chase scence .   ( although this is ruined by an over the top , one too many stunt and explosion . )  simple in construction , effective in it's execution , and the result , a clear and concise , highly enjoyable action film .  the acting is adequate , although it's darned obvious that sandra bullock is only in it to create a 'hot totty' appeal to the men ( and she does that perfectly ! ) , jason patrick fills the action hero role superbly and willem dafoe is just great as the crazed terrorist .  overall , speed 2 is a most enjoyable thrill ride .  not up to it's predecessor's high calibre but very good all the same .  there is plenty going on , some of the thrills are quite tense and it also proves that you do not need blood and guts to make a good action movie . 
neg@  " spice world " is just one long promotional film for the british girl band the spice girls .  sure there's a hint of humor in there every once in a while .  actually , there's a couple of pretty good jabs at the spice girls .  but overall , who cares ?  not me .  if you don't know by now , the spice girls sing songs of love and friendship and responsibility and girl power , yet dress like streetwalkers from a lower middle class neighborhood .  in " spice world " they ride around in their big tour bus , whining about having to do photo shoots and give interviews .  amazingly , all the talk they do about keeping commitments and upholding responsibilities only really applies to fun things , things they want to do , not things they are required to do to keep earning money .  and they keep babbling about " girl power " when they should really be talking about " cleavage power " .  i mean , if all it takes is girl power , then why are they only one thread away from bursting out of their skimpy outfits ?  the film is pg , but really with only some very minor dialogue changes and scene extentions , you'd have yourself one raunchy adult film .  by the way , there's something in the opening credits which says " based on an idea by the spice girls " .  wow , they got idea credit !  i certainly wish that was a new trend in hollywood . . .  giving credit for simply having the thought " say girls , let's make a movie ! "  the supporting cast fares well .  roger moore ( the real james bond ) mockingly plays the cliche-spewing " chief " of the spice girls , and darn it all , he's fun to watch .  mark mckenney also is good as a screenwriter trying to pitch film ideas to the band's manager ( richard e . grant ) .  one question though : george wendt ?  you'd think that " spice world " would envoke one of two reactions in people .  if you like the spice girls , you'll like them even more afterwards .  and if you can't stand them ( like me ) , then " spice world " will really make you sick .  oddly , the audience i saw the film with , roughly 50 twelve year-old girls , sat in silence for the entire film .  well , not the two who sat directly behind me .  they kept muttering " this is stupid " over and over again .  maybe there is hope for humanity after all .  [pg] 
pos@ synopsis : it's 1977 in a small italian american neighborhood in new york .  disco music is popular , and the sexual revolution is on , but the people of new york are not happy .  in fact , they're terrified .  as in spike lee's do the right thing a heat wave has the city in its grip , and peoples' tempers are flaring .  the cool of night offers no respite : the neighborhood is being terrorized by a nocturnal psychotic killer who calls himself the son of sam .  no one knows who the son of sam is , and no one is safe .  all around new york people are different .  aside from cultural groupings and ethnic neighborhoods there are differences between individuals .  in the italian american section of town a philandering husband named vinny ( john leguizamo ) tries to hide his trysts and sexual behavior from his long suffering newlywed wife dionna ( mira sorvino ) .  vinny's friend ritchie ( adrien brody ) hates disco , works at a gay strip club and doesn't want any of the neighborhood folks to know .  ritchie's girl ruby ( jennifer esposito ) is trying to escape a reputation as a slut .  everyone's different , but nobody in the film wants to be framed as " alien " to the community .  unfortunately , the killings help create a climate of suspicion pits neighbor against neighbor .  opinion : director spike lee's summer of sam is not about a psycho killer .  nor is it about cops trying to apprehend him .  it's about differences and how , given the right conditions , even close neighbors can fan the hostile flames of irrational suspicion .  one thing i found interesting in summer of sam was the use of sex .  in other movies sex is glamorized .  for example , james bond gets a sexual reward for winning .  or boring made-for-video " suspense " movies are spiked with gratuitous lingerie scenes just to keep the audience awake .  and every movie or soap opera character in these flicks seems to have expert sexual prowess .  not so with summer of sam .  in a very gutsy move director spike lee shows sex without fantasy .  sex is there , but it isn't gratuitous or titillating .  in fact , some of the main characters are downright lousy in bed .  sex is in the film because ( sexual ) deviance is part of the film's major theme of " difference " breeding hostility .  in my opinion this kind of movie sex is cutting edge for 1999 , as rare and thought-provoking in american cinema as showing a spanking . 
neg@ alexander dumas' the three musketeers is one of the most often-adapted literary works , and for good reason : the swashbuckler is a legend rather than just a story .  perhaps the musketeer , a new film that " reimagines " the novel in the spirit and style of the matrix , is one adaptation too many .  it's just awful : spiritless , silly and unforgivably boring , transforming the timeless classic into a mish-mash of old-as-time clich ? s and incoherent , repetitive action sequences .  this time , d'artagnan is played by calvin klein model justin chambers , who can't even pronounce his character's name .  as a boy , he watched his father get killed by febre ( tim roth ) , a lackey of power-hungry cardinal richelieu .  he vowed to have vengeance .  after undergoing intense training under an expert swordsman , he goes looking for his enemy .  on his quest , he embroils himself in a struggle for control at the highest levels of the french government .  the royal musketeers have lost their gusto , what with their jobs being taken over by the cardinal's own guards .  only a few loyal swashbuckers remain , among them athos and portos ( who are only figureheads in this movie ) .  together with d'artagnan , they fight to extricate the queen ( catherine deneuve ) from the traps that febre and richelieu are trying to plant .  oh , and as an afterthought , d'artagnan falls in love with the poor maid at the local inn ( mena suvari ) .  just thought i'd mention that .  now , look : i don't know whose idea this was , but whoever is responsible deserves a severe tongue-lashing .  i have nothing against " modernizing " classic works of literature - at the very least , they can inspire viewers to actually read the book - but films as dull as this have no positive side effects .  director peter hyams , known for such masterpieces of modern cinema as timecop and end of days , has jettisoned everything that was great about dumas' masterwork : the sense of excitement , cause , and camaraderie .  instead , we get impressively choreographed but somehow vacuous , uninvolving action sequences that emerge from emptiness and lead to nothing .  when the musketeers finally get to holler " all for one , and one for all , " i could have sworn that was dumas rolling in his grave that i felt .  maybe the reason for the utter lack of suspense here is the hyams's tone , which is unreasonably dark and brooding when you consider the reader's digest condensed version of the story that he gives us .  it's as though anything that may have been construed as " fun " was purposely expunged from the production .  the joylessness of the proceedings , from the oppressively shady lighting to the mechanical fight scenes , can be felt in every frame .  chambers can't act ; suvari , roth and deneuve can , but aren't given the chance .  and when push comes to shove , the use of stunt doubles is distractingly obvious , though at least roth gets to play a villain without having to wear an ape suit .  some movies seem sloppy and careless , clearly made for a quick buck .  with the musketeer we get the sense that it was meticulously crafted to be awful .  the film is intricate , stylish and precise , hitting the wrong note every single time . 
pos@ us critic-type people are always shaking our heads and telling everyone that movies aren't thrill rides , but i think that " back to the future ii " is one of the few exceptions .  if the original film had the spirit of the 1950s , then this has the spirit of the 80s : full of fights ; chase scenes ; cliff hangers ; special effects ; some detective work ; and of course the vision of the high-tech future .  the film picks up exactly where the first film left off , with doc ( lloyd ) , marty ( fox ) , and jennifer ( elizabeth shue ) travelling 30 years into the future , because something bad is going to happen to marty and jennifer's kids .  doc tells marty he must take his son's place at an incident that will cause a chain reaction if marty mcfly jr . says yes to griff ( wilson - in one of four different roles ) .  whoever said history tends to repeat itself wasn't joking , especially when it comes to the movies .  essentially the same chase scene that marty endured in the 50s takes place again in the year 2015 , but it's not as authentically exciting this time because it is so obviously a parody of itself .  at the end of the situation marty has changed the course of history for the better , and it seems like everything's copasetic right ?  wrong .  since when do things go according to plan in the " back to the future " movies ?  there are so many minor conflicts and details that effect the plot and the direction of the story i won't even bother to list them all .  basically we get to see marty as an old man , his house , his family , etc . we also go back to an alternate 1985 , and then back again to 1955 , with everything happening so fast the film never stops to catch a breath .  the films' best aspect is the fact that it actually goes back to the first movie and shows a lot of the action that occurred from another angle .  it's difficult to convey the sense of wild and zany fun without describing every little detail .  the only thing sacrificed in this film is the suspense .  instead of a grand finale , we get lots of little victories .  by the end everything is back to normal , but something happens that leads to yet another sequel , but it doesn't seem gratuitous .   " back to the future part ii " is a really great adventure movie .  it certainly has more originality than other films but it lacks a certain charm that was dominate throughout its predecessor . 
neg@ tri-star ; rated r ( language , sexual situations , violence ) ; 87 minutes  director and writer : darren stein  cast : rose mcgowan , rebecca gayheart , judy greer , julie benz , chad christ , ethan erickson , carol kane , pam grier , tatyana m . ali .  review by : geoff berkshire  jawbreaker is the very definition of a " rip-off . "  this uninspired teen comedy takes equal parts carrie ( 1976 ) , heathers ( 1989 ) and clueless ( 1995 ) and mixes in all the necessary teen movie clich ? s .  along the way writer/director darren stein forgets to give the film a life of its own .  the film opens with a voice over from geeky fern mayo ( judy greer ) about the four most popular girls at reagan high : courtney shayne ( rose mcgowan ) who can basically be summed up as satan in heels , julie freeman ( rebecca gayheart ) a good girl with the face of a supermodel , marcie fox ( julie benz ) a dim-witted blonde who demands that people call her " foxy " , and liz purr ( charlotte roldan ) an angel in disguise .  liz is everyone's favorite because she's both beautiful and kind .  liz is about to turn 17 and , as a prank , courtney convinces the other girls to help her in kidnapping liz on her birthday morning .  in order to keep liz from making any noise courtney stuffs a jawbreaker into her mouth before they gag her .  they then stuff liz in the trunk of courtney's car but when they open it later , polaroid camera waiting to capture the moment , their lives will never be the same : poor liz has swallowed the jawbreaker and choked to death with it lodged in her throat ( the audience is treated to a few too many graphic looks at liz's dead body ) .  courtney , thinking fast , decides to pass the death off as a rape/murder and marcie and a reluctant julie assist her .  things get complicated when fern discovers what the three girls are up to .  in order to keep her quiet courtney comes up with another plan and transforms geeky fern into " vylette " , hoping that she will also help to replace liz in the minds of the devastated students .  up until about this point the film is effective enough .  however , an investigation begins into liz's death and the film becomes excessively dull .  the recently rediscovered talents of pam grier are thoroughly wasted in the role of detective vera cruz and the film is downright insipid in its treatment of both the characters and the audience during this long middle stretch .  courtney's plan to frame a sleazy guy ( marilyn manson , in a brief cameo ) is never believable for a second .  meanwhile , the audience is stuck watching a string of random events which fail to develop the characters or add anything of interest to the plot .  julie leaves the group and begins a lame romance with aspiring actor zack ( chad christ ) .  he apparently gives her the courage to turn on courtney but the way things develop only make julie look stupid .  fern's rise to popularity is equally lame .  we do get the best scene in the film ( the only one with a spark of originality ) during this section .  it's a smart and subversive bit where courtney gets the high school's resident jock stud dane ( ethan erickson ) to demonstrate , using a popsicle , exactly what he would like for her to do to him .  it at least provides us with a look at courtney's personality but the way the scene finishes doesn't make any sense .  stein is very conscious of the teen movie tradition he is working in and not only freely borrows major plot elements but also includes direct acknowledgment of this with some stunt casting .  william katt and p . j . soles ( students in carrie ) are liz's distraught parents , jeff conaway ( from grease ( 1978 ) ) is julie's creepy single dad and carol kane ( the frightened babysitter in when a stranger calls ( 1979 ) ) camps it up as principal miss sherman .  at times jawbreaker feels simply like teen cinema's greatest hits but the audience is cheated with watered down interpretations of the best this genre has to offer .  the only notable aspect of jawbreaker is the incredibly stylish look .  the costume design by vickie brinkford and the production design by jerry fleming are both bright and vivid .  they were apparently instructed to work from the color palette of a jawbreaker and the screen is always splashed with bits of vibrant color .  director of photography amy vicent , who beautifully lensed eve's bayou ( 1997 ) , does a remarkable job here as well .  shot composition and camera movement is consistently impressive .  performances are mostly sub-par with mcgowan providing only a few good moments ( compared with her excellent work in the doom generation ( 1995 ) and scream ( 1996 ) ) and gayheart making the biggest impression due to the sweet nature of her character and her obvious beauty .  none of the actors look as if they have set foot inside a high school within the last five years with the exception of actress/singer tatyana ali , who has a small role as a cheerleader .  the male cast all resemble male models and are credited with names like " auto stud , " " college stud , " and " high school stud #2 . "  the soundtrack is decent and imperial teen's catchy " yoo hoo " makes a bigger impression than any other aspect of the film . 
pos@ whenever studio executives try to combine the successful formula of two blockbuster films , the end result is always a mess of a script , acting , directing , and generally a waste of time for any audience with an average iq above 40 .  the latest movie morass from hollywood , the crew , appeared equally destined to fail , a strange combination of grumpy old men and goodfellas tossed together with the likes of richard dreyfuss and burt reynolds helming the ship .  the scary thing is that it's actually entertaining and a breath of fresh air in this otherwise stale month .  the crew works for several reasons .  the clever script is reminiscent of an old billy wilder movie , following four " past their prime " wiseguys from jersey who now live in the raj mahal apartment house in miami beach .  the wiseguys find themselves being evicted from their " golden paradise " by greedy landlords bent on raising rents for new beach bunnies and boys looking for beachfront property .  the four mobsters , bobby bartellemeo ( richard dreyfuss ) , joey " bats " pistella ( burt reynolds ) , mike " the brick " donatelli ( dan hedaya ) , and tony " mouth " donato ( seymour cassel ) decide to hatch a scheme to plant there a dead body heisted from the morgue in order to drive out the new tenants and keep their home .  this " simple plan " suddenly goes screwy , of course , and the boys become involved with a stripper named ferris ( jennifer tilly ) who wants her stepmother killed , a paranoid latin drug lord who's convinced a mysterious rival is out to get him , and a rat with its tail on fire .  the crew works as a strong comedic vehicle driven by a great ensemble cast of talented character actors and subtle leading men .  instead of concentrating on bobby's search for his daughter , the film gives equal screen time to all four wiseguys , balancing the production .  the acting talents of such screen veterans as dan hedaya , seymour cassel , and the great , great burt reynolds are brought out by each character's uniqueness and synergy within the wiseguy circle .  a strong supporting cast including jeremy piven as a philandering boyfriend/cop/partner and miguel sandoval as the paranoid drug lord provide the most laughs .  the film was produced by barry sonnenfeld and carries a hint get shorty with its energetic camera work by michael dinner , emmy award-winning director of the wonder years .  the quick script written by barry fanaro , screenwriter of kingpin , is carried by plenty of subtly dry humor and wit .  the crew is a prime example of how simple and dry-witted a comedy can get these days .  the great thing is that this comedy does not need to be punctuated by bodily fluids , phallus symbols in the head , or grandmothers giving head in a spa .  in the steady flow of " extreme " comedy these days flowing from hollywood like a broken water main , it's the elder statesmen like dreyfuss , reynolds , and hedaya that can carry a comic arc with only a few weapons of choice - a decent script and good acting . 
neg@ when i originally saw the trailer for " analyze this " a few months ago , i must admit , i thought it looked kind of lame .  and then when the commercials started popping up a week or two ago , i thought it looked outright bad .  but then when " analyze this " finally opened a few days ago , an odd thing happened .  it got great reviews .  critics were proclaiming it " hilarious " and a " dead-on parody of mob movies " .  well , with praise like that , i figured , it must be good and so i headed off to the theater .  you know that expression that says always trust your gut instincts ?  well , turns out that expression is more valid than i ever gave it credit for .   " analyze this " is slow , unfunny , and badly acted .  don't get me wrong , i think that deniro is one of the top ten greatest actors of the century , but he is just out of his league here .  i think the problem is he didn't quite know how to approach this material .  he plays his character , mob boss paull vitti , somewhere in between the realm of comedy and drama .  if he had played the character straight , along the lines of leslie nielson in the " naked gun " series , he probably would have been a lot more successful .  as it is , though , he plays the character completely serious at some moments , and for laughs at others .  this doesn't work .  it creates an uneven character that never breaks out of the deniro mold ; you always know it's him .  and the movie is badly paced , too .  it never takes off .  it just crawls from one scene to another without any forward momentum .  i think the blame for this should be placed on the script .  it's obvious the writer had a good idea for a movie , mob boss faces breakdown and needs the services of a psychiatrist , but once this is established , the movie doesn't really go anywhere .  the formula of the film seems to be this : billy crystal says no to deniro , deniro forces him , and much wackiness ensues .  this formula of sorts is repeated several times throughout the movie .  i've said it before and i'll say it again : the only thing that matters to me in a comedy is whether or not it's funny .  if " analyze this " had been funny , the pacing and bad acting wouldn't have bothered me .  i would have been too busy laughing to notice .  but as it is , i only chuckled a few times .  the only really funny scene is a dead-on parody of " the godfather " .  sadly , though , i don't think anyone in the audience i saw it with realized it was a parody , because i was the only one laughing .  but my sense of humour , i have come to realize , is vastly different from the general population .  i loathed " there's something about mary " , yet loved " baseketball " .  now , if you want a movie that * i * think is funny , go out and see " office space " .  it's full of genuine laughs and won't leave you glancing at your watch every 10 minutes , as " analyze this " did . 
pos@ barely scrapping by playing at a nyc piano bar , timothy hutton returns to his massachusetts hometown for a couple of weeks .  on the surface , he's coming home for a high school reunion , but since this is a movie , you know that he's really looking for some major life decisions .  a fairly " small " film , this sports an impressive ensemble cast including uma thurman , rosie o'donnell and a bunch of actors that you've seen before but can't quite place .  commendable jobs all around ; they seem like real people .  hutton arrives at his past and is greeted by his spirit-dead father , terminally goony brother and old high school chums .  all of his old buddies are engaged in the snow removal business and most are in the midst of a relationship crisis .  the perfect stuff for a comedy about people in the twenties angst .  he meets and falls for the new next door neighbor : a beautiful intelligent lively girl who is obviously taken with him .  the problem is that she is only 13 .  unconsummated ( no , it's not _that_ type of movie ) , their relationship builds and neither knows what to do with it .  star-crossed lovers with no where to go .  so hutton is gaga over a barely-teen , one of his buddies is two-timing his girlfriend with a married old flame , another's girlfriend is sleeping with a meat cutter ( " and she's a vegetarian ! " ) .  things are a mess .  enter uma thurman .  the beautiful stranger in town for a few days is both a delight in the film and one of its minor downfalls .  her character is fun to watch .  even more entertaining is observing the guys falling over themselves trying to impress her .  like the lone ranger , before she leaves , she solves most of the problems and sets everyone onward with their lives .  the ending is a bit too pat .  everything is tied up with a neat little bow .  rosie o'donnell is a stand-out in her limited screen time with her brash personality and " tell it like it is " pronouncements .  structured somewhat like a " diner , a few years later " , this feel-good story is a good time , but ends a little too nice . 
neg@ capsule : annoyingly unentertaining , obvious and paper-thin buddy/cop/drug/sexy-witness movie .  presence of director michael bay shows none of the talent he demonstrated in the rock .  i've seen this movie already , i said , as i looked at the box art .  no , i haven't even seen a trailer for the movie ; i don't even know what it's about , but i can look at the way they're promoting it , and i know i've seen it already .  i thought : it's about these two cops .  and they're buddies , sort of .  they're at each other's throats a lot , but they really do like each other .  and everyone else in their department hates them 'cause they're hot-shots .  and they have some kind of diametric opposition in their relationship .  and one day they're in the middle of cop business as usual when they get mixed up in this plot that involves a really sadistic bad guy with lots of henchmen who can never hit anything with the billions of rounds of ammo they are always carrying .  and the bad guy is a drug lord .  and there's a witness , and she's this sexy thing who rubs both of them the wrong way .  and their supervisor wants their badges for breakfast when they blow up half the town bringing this guy down .  i only missed the bit about the badges .  the rest i got dead-on .  and i hadn't even left the video store yet .  the cops in this movie are will smith and martin lawrence , and the bad guy is the immensely underutilized tcheky karyo .  smith plays a cop who has a trust fund and is thus not a cop for the money ; martin l . is a family man ( shades of the now-tired lethal weapon dynamic here ) whose wife and he are at total odds .  this leads to some strained scenes about lawrence's " not getting any " , and some totally unneccesary bits with him skulking around his own house , thinking his partner is now his wife's " back door man " .  not funny ; tiresome .  bad boys gets some of its incredibly meager selling points from the presence of will smith and martin lawrence .  will smith is a natural , and i'm happy to see him in movies like six degrees . . .  and men in black .  he's funny and charming without trying to be ; he really does seem to be enjoying himself .  martin lawrence is a different story ; he's so uptight and verbally constipated that sitting through his improvised riffs are a trial .  movies like this are not about originality .  i know this .  they are about style and energy and synergy between actors .  i know this , too .  and yet , while watching bad boys , which its glamorous photography and impossibly exact stunt choreography , i felt fed up .  i'd seen con air , which despite being completely implausible , was still great fun , because it tried however feebly to put some new life into the mix .  bad boys is a dry run -- and overlong , too , clocking in at just over two hours with a lot more by-play than i felt could be justified .  i could write this movie .  you could write this movie .  many people have .  many people will continue to write this movie , over and over again .  other people will buy it from them , and make it , and we will pay money to see it .  more the fools we all .  in a terrifyingly prescient line from his book a scanner darkly , phil k . dick once mused that the mcdonaldburger ( as he called it ) would eventually eclipse money as the token of cultural and financial exchange .  one day we will all just sit in our living rooms and sell the same burger back and forth to each other .  the same could be said about this movie .  i have the sinking feeling we're going to see it again .  soon . 
pos@ every once in a while a movie comes along that completely redefines the genre : with dramas , it was citizen kane , with arthouse it was pulp fiction , and with comedy it was , well , that jim carrey guy ( okay , so he's not a movie , but he did have a huge influence on the genre .  not to mention an expensive one . )  sometimes a movie even combines them all into a big , sprawling motion picture event , as did forrest gump four years ago .  with action films , it was aliens , whic was released to much hype seven years after it's equally-innovative parent , alien ( 1979 ) .  directed and written by james cameron ( t2 : judgement day , the abyss , true lies ) , the authority on action films , it was a masterful encore to his sci-fi thriller the terminator ( 1984 ) .  while the original alien film was a dark , enclosed horror film that featured one alien slowly massacering a horrified crew , james cameron took the big-budget action film with aliens , which featured multiple aliens doing basically the same thing , although on a much-larger scale .  and boy , did he take that route !  i'd say at about 165 mph or so . . .  the film opens 57 years after the original , with lt . ripley ( weaver ) being found in her ship in a cryogenic state by a salvage vessel .  if you'll recall , at the end of alien ripley , the only surviving member , cryogenically " hibernated " herself after expelling the rogue alien from her ship .  unfortunately , she thought she'd only be out for a couple of weeks . . .  once she's returned to earth , ripley is quickly interrogated by " the company " , who quickly dismiss her and her stories as lunacy .  in truth , they believe her , as they soon approach ripley with an offer to travel with some marines to a new colony planet as an " alien advisor " .  it seems that the colony planet was a once-breeding ground for the nasty aliens , and now all communication with the planet has been lost . . .  it doesn't exactly take a genius to guess what happens next : ripley agrees , and before you can say " big mistake " , she and the half dozen marines , plus the slimy corporate guy ( reiser ) , who has more than it looks like up under his sleeve , are off to the colony .  when they arrive , they find the planet in ruins .  only one survivor is found , a little girl , newt , who confirms that , yes , the aliens were here and that she only managed to survive by hidding in the ventilation system .  and soon enough , the marines come under attack from the aliens . . .  what happens for the next hour and a half or so is what completely sets this movie apart from any other standard alien sci-fi movie : the action scenes .  cameron directs them so skillfully , and so suspensefully , that you're literally ringing your hands by the time the finale rolls around .  which features , in my opinion , the best fight scene ever recorded on film , as ripley straps herself into a huge robot and battles the nasty queen alien to the death .  many people will tell you that this film , while being a great action film , has no real drama and is all cliches .  well , they would be wrong , my friends .  if this film had no " drama " , then why was sigourney weaver nominated for best actress at the 1987 academy awards ?  that's right , best actress .  you know that any action film that has an oscar nomination attached to it for something other than technical stuff like editing and f/x has got to be good .  in short , aliens combines all the right elements ( great action and f/x , drama , a good plot , good dialogue , and great villains ) into what could arguably be called the best action film of all time .  then again , maybe not .  movies rise and fall from glory and , sad to say , aliens was wrestled from it's throne of best action movie by another cameron film , t2 : judgement day , in 1991 .  so who will be the next king ?  well , let's wait until december 19th and see yet another james cameron film-the highest budgeted film of all time-titanic to make that decision .  i can't wait . 
neg@ tomb raider .  fun ?  exciting ?  challenging ?  given the unprecedented popularity ( especially among teenage boys ) of the video game that sports an uber-buff , pistol packin' babe who raids , well . . .  tombs , you have to believe it's these three things and more !   " lara croft : tomb raider , " the big screen variant of said video game , which features a pumped-up angelina jolie ( the oscar ? winner for " girl , interrupted " no less ) in the title role is , however , none of these things .  it isn't fun , it isn't exciting , and the only challenge is seeing how long you can stay in your seat ( i suffered through to the bitter , bitter end ; the wife opted for barnes & noble at the 45-minute mark ) .  directed by simon west with the same subtlety he brought to " con air , " " tomb raider " is an empty-headed , big budget bore .  the story borrows unintelligently from that mother of all turkeys " hudson hawk " ( the same hokum about planetary alignments and sacred stones that , when brought together , well . . .  who the heck cares ? ) and it makes " super mario bros . " ( bob hoskins' ill-advised career move ) look like " rocco and his brothers " ( that classic of italian neo-realism ) .  i'll go out on a limb here and say i suspect there's actually more character development in the video game than the movie proper .  this is where the jolie defenders/video game nuts jump in and say this movie isn't about character development it's about kicking serious butt ( or bum , since ms . croft hails from england's green and pleasant ) .  with lips , breasts , and biceps all inflated to the max , lara croft is all about posturing , and jolie has a hard time simply standing still without trying to look tough .  ok , let's forget challenging .  shouldn't " tomb raider " be , at the very least , fun and exciting ?  shouldn't our butt-kicking heroine also encompass the sophistication of , say , james bond with the wit of indiana jones ?  there's no humor to be found anywhere in " tomb raider , " even though it tries hard from time to time .  even " the mummy returns " didn't take itself too seriously .  the villain here is noticeably lacking , the special effects are ridiculously overblown and unnecessarily complicated , and the script is non-existent .  to liven things up ( perhaps ) , jolie's live father jon voight puts in a few minutes as lara's dead father lord croft ; talk about a stretch .  one thing i hadn't expected from the film is that jolie affects a slightly better english accent than her pa ( although i suspect that thin-looking moustache he's forced to wear gets in the way some ) .  unsuccessful ? not entirely .  if anything , " lara croft : tomb raider " makes you want to check out the video game itself to figure out exactly what all the fuss was about . 
pos@ meet joe black is your classic boy-meets-girl , boy-likes-girl , boy-gets-killed-in-horrible-accident , supernatural-entity-takes-over-boy's-body , supernatural-entity-falls-in-love-with-girl story .  based on the 1934 film death takes a holiday , meet joe black is a well acted romantic drama which explores the meanings of life and love .  william parrish ( anthony hopkins ) is a billionaire businessman on the brink of his 65th birthday .  he has built a huge media empire , and raised two beautiful daughters , allison ( marcia gay harden ) and susan ( claire forlani ) .  william has been able to negotiate his way out of many tough spots . . . but he has suddenly begun fearing his own mortality , the one situation he won't be able to talk his way out of .  and he has good reason to fear , for death himself is stalking him .  however , death has a deal to make .  death has taken possession of a man who has recently died ( brad pitt ) , and wants william to be his guide in a holiday among the living .  in return , william gets to live a few extra days .  of course , he agrees .  death , under the human name of " joe black " , gets to experience life as a complete innocent .  he never before has experienced the simple pleasures of a springy matters or peanut butter .  and he's not quite compared for the more complex pleasures when he and susan fall in love .  but , is their affair doomed to an early demise ?  at nearly three hours in length , meet joe black is a little bit on the leisurely side , though it never gets boringly lengthy .  instead , the film gets a chance to develop some nicely textured characters and situations .  you get to soak in and enjoy the atmosphere , rather than being hurriedly rushed through it .  the romantic angle works well , though , surprisingly , the interactions between joe black and william parrish are more interesting than those with his daughter .  this is most likely due to anthony hopkins , who once again displays his superb acting skills .  william is a desperate man who has had a seemingly ideal life , and doesn't want to let it go .  by contrast , claire forlani is merely the romantic interest .  she gets to show joe the ropes of love , but is hardly as interesting a character .  as joe black , brad pitt seems a bit stilted .  granted , he's supposed to be out-of-place , but the overly formal technique used by pitt begins to distract from the role .  still , he is able to hold his own , and over the course of the three hours , his character begins to grow on you .  the main character who seems out of place here is drew ( jake weber ) , an ambitious executive in williams' company who is joe black's main rival for susan's affections .  weber plays the character with a hammy relish reminiscent of snidley whiplash .  this cartoonish foil an aberration in a film filled many more dimensional characters .  the supernatural elements of the film are handled murkily , but never distractingly so .  we never learn what is the exact nature of death , or why he's never done something like this before .  it actually gets a bit creepy when death talks to the dying in their own voices/accents .   ( his initial conversations with hopkins sound shockingly like hannibal lecter . . . )  and the ultimate resolution to one of the film's supernatural problems seems , well , somewhat superficial .  still , even with the film's length , it was a pleasant time at the movies , something you wouldn't necessarily expect from a film about death . . . but one which meet joe black delivers anyhow . 
neg@ the swirling sick feeling hit me just a few minutes into " heartbreakers . "  ray liotta's character was making out with his secretary when his new wife knocked on the door of his office .  while scrambling to collect himself , he frantically shouted to her , " just wait a sex ? er , i mean sec ! "  i was struck by a wave of revulsion , thinking , " geez , didn't lines like that die when 'three's company' was canceled ? "  over the next few minutes , as the barely double entendres and lingering cleavage shots grew more numerous , i realized that the mindset behind " heartbreakers " predated " three's company . "  suddenly , i had an out-of-body experience as my internal way-back machine swept me to the mid-1960s .  all across america , the counter-culture was growing like wildfire , but there was scant evidence of it on tv .  while young people were challenging traditional values on the streets , frustrated teenagers like me were stuck at home , sulking while our parents enjoyed the latest bob hope special .  women in skimpy bathing suits would prance onscreen while hope made growling noises and leered at their breasts .  on another channel , dean martin made wisecracks about " booze and broads " and peter lawford , decked out in love beads and a nehru jacket , purred suggestive one-liners as he ogled the go-go dancers .  the adults laughed and laughed .   " heartbreakers " reeks of that stagnant mentality , from its lingering shots of jennifer love hewitt's vah-vah-voom breasts to its leaden screenplay , which paints women as haughty schemers and men as drooling buffoons too sex-obsessed to realize they are being manipulated .  in addition to liotta and hewitt , the cast includes sigourney weaver , gene hackman , jason lee , nora dunn and anne bancroft .  i can't imagine what drew performers of their caliber to this project .  perhaps they thought it was a parody of the sniggering sex comedies of the '60s .  if so , they were sadly mistaken .  the story revolves around a mother-daughter con-team .  it opens with the marriage of max ( weaver ) to dean ( liotta ) , a new jersey chop shop operator .  having withheld sex until the honeymoon , max pretends to pass out on their wedding night .  the next morning , she feigns illness , sending a very horny dean off to the office , where he ends up in the arms of his new secretary .  just as the two are about to get overtly physical , max bursts into the room and catches them .  the " horrified " bride dissolves the union , garnering a healthy cash settlement along the way .  of course , the secretary was really her daughter page ( hewitt ) and the whole thing was a set-up .  the women move on , but an irs agent ( bancroft ) catches up with them and demands a huge amount of money to cover unpaid taxes .  in desperate need of funds , max and page head for palm beach to replay the scam .  their mark this time is william b . tensy ( hackman , in hideous make-up ) , a decrepit tobacco tycoon obsessed with the joys of smoking .  max starts to put the game into action , but page is so repelled by the old man ( and angry with her mom ) that she slips off to enact her own score , targeting jack , a laid back young beach bar owner who is worth a fortune .  complications arise when page realizes that good-natured jack is stirring actual emotions in her steely little heart .  as if that wasn't enough , dean reappears on the scene with revenge on his mind .  the attempt to weld a romance onto a caper comedy served only to remind me of the infinitely superior " a fish called wanda . "  i won't bother to compare the two .  suffice to say that everything done right in " wanda " is done wrong here .   " heartbreakers " is soulless , inept and , at 123 minutes , at least a half-hour too long .  sigourney weaver and jennifer love hewitt throw themselves into their parts , but have nowhere to go with the metallic characters .  gene hackman is utterly wasted in a one-note , one-joke part that has him doing nothing but smoking , coughing and waxing rhapsodic about smoking and sex .  poor jason lee is stuck in the ingenue role and the normally charismatic actor comes off as merely bland .  ray liotta manages to squeeze a tiny bit of humanity and humor into his walking clich ? , but only a bit .  the low point in the film has weaver employing a russian accent bad enough to make boris and natasha wince , while doing half-assed slapstick with a broken off penis from a statue .  bear in mind , though , that this is merely the worst segment of a movie made up of nothing but low points .  if you remember bob hope specials with fondness , this might be your cup of tea .  as for me , i'm going to watch " a fish called wanda " now and try to forget i ever saw " heartbreakers . " 
pos@ the cryptic teaser trailer has been unspooling in moviehouses for quite sometime now : " it mu5t be found . "  so what , exactly , is the fifth element ?  after seeing luc besson's ambitious , much-shrouded-in-secrecy science fiction fantasy , i could not help but be let down by the actual answer , which is not nearly as exciting nor clever as one would think .  but what is far from a letdown is the film as a whole , a wildly imaginative feast for the senses that does what all the best science fiction films do--create a universe unlike any other presented on the silver screen .  the biggest irony of the fifth element is that the one thing that has been kept under such tight wraps--the actual storyline--is the most conventional , dismayingly so , element ( pun intended ) of the film .  speaking in the vaguest possible terms , the basics of the plot are as follows : in the year 2259 , a great force of evil threatens to consume the earth , and only the four elements--earth , wind , fire , and water--united with a fifth element can stop it .  figuring into all of this are new york cabbie korben dallas ( bruce willis ) ; a shady , southern-drawling entrepreneur by the name of zorg ( the hilariously hammy gary oldman , picking up where he left off in besson's the professional ) ; a priest ( ian holm ) ; and a mysterious creature named leeloo ( milla jovovich ) .  all of the pieces come together in a tidy and somewhat underwhelming--and unsurprising--fashion , but there is no denying that this basic story holds some intrinsic interest .  what remains interesting and exciting , however , after brief glimpses is the fascinating world besson has created with production designer dan weil , director of photography thierry arbogast , visual effects supervisor mark stetson , and the crew at digital domain .  the look is absolutely mesmerizing right from the opening moments to the last .  the frenzied cityscape of new york , with its vibrant day-glo colors , tall buildings penetrating high into the clouds , and the swarm of cars , cabs , and other vehicles flying through labyrinthian skyways , is absolutely breathtaking to behold , especially in a wild car chase sequence early on in the film .  but it would not have been a completely captivating vision if the people inhabiting the settings weren't equally as interesting , and are they ever .  in addition to the exotic menagerie of alien creatures that populate this world , from bulky robots to dog-like mangalores , the humans are outfitted in costumes by eccentric designer jean-paul gaulthier , best known for creating madonna's pointy bustier get-up in her blonde ambition tour .  gaulthier's outlandish creations , such as a number worn by leeloo made entirely out of white straps , feel more at home in besson's futuristic vision than on any fashion runway in the world ; they add to the sense of otherworldliness about the film .  while besson's bold vision is the biggest virtue of the film , it also could be its biggest obstacle to reaching a mass audience .  for all its imagination , certain things about the film may be a bit too quirky and bizarre .  i really do not know what middle america will make of the most outrageous character of the film , ruby rhod ( chris tucker ) , a flamboyant disc jockey who makes dennis rodman look conservative--he makes a raucous entrance dressed in an animal print dress , sporting a blonde hairdo in the shape of a hair dryer , speaking in high pitches at rapid fire speed .  at first this character's hyper energy is funny , but the act wears out its welcome very quickly .  not irritating , but just as strange , is a musical number by blue-skinned alien chanteuse diva ( maiwenn lebesco ) , who sings--and dances--an aria that is an unlikely blend of classical opera and techno .  the tune , as with the entirety of longtime besson collaborator eric serra's innovative score , is haunting , but it is also completely jarring .  then there are the campy touches of humor besson and co-scripter robert mark kamen sprinkle throughout , which too often are silly and forced ; a comic sexual encounter between ruby rhod and a flight attendant is highly distracting and not very funny , to boot .  the story's weakness shines through in the climax and conclusion of the fifth element .  while still visually and aurally spectacular , the events detailed are not as exciting nor powerful as they should be .  the big , serious dramatic climax was met with more than a few snickers , and it ambitiously strives for a profundity which the film had not even begun to work toward .  as such , at the end there is a sense that there was something bigger at work here , that there was still more left to be said about this story and these characters .  this suspicion was confirmed by besson himself , who told me in the lobby following the screening ( imagine that , the filmmaker watching the film with the " enemy " --the critics ) that what had made it to the screen was really just the first half of the lengthy original fifth element screenplay and that the second half--now titled mr . shadow--is still waiting to be made .  still , despite the story problems , the fifth element is an artistic triumph for luc besson ; rarely does a filmmaker's original vision come to the screen in all its audacious , undiluted glory .  it is a fascinating example of how of one artist's fervid imagination can transport an audience into an intoxicating fantasy world generally seen only in dreams . 
neg@ plot summary : the year is 2024 .  the ozone layer has long since gone and the earth is now protected from radiation by a shield invented by connor mccleod .  the shield , although saving lives , has made the atmosphere hot and humid .  connor is a mortal and a tired old man who has given up hope .  on returning from the opera one night connor is accosted by the leader of a " terrorist " organisation .  they have tried to find out what the company that now runs the shield unit are covering up .  connor is then attacked by two assassins sent by katana from the planet zeist ( like zeit--get it ? ) .  they fail and connor becomes immortal again by chopping their heads off .  he then brings ramirez back to life in glencoe in scotland .  both ramirez and connor are rebel leaders back on zeist and have been sent to earth as punishment .  connor now has the option to return being the last one but opts to stay with his new found immortality and fight to find out about the company and the shield .  katana meanwhile , fearing connor would return , sets out himself to kill the highlander .  if you have never seen it .  being a fan of highlander and mr . connery , i was in the cinema as soon as i could to see highlander ii : the quickening .  i wish it had been quicker .  i feel whatever else you can say about a film ( bad script bad music , etc . ) if you sit just plain bored through most of it then nothing much else needs to be said .  the film was short but in my opinion only twelve minutes or so ( the time mr . connery is on the screen for ) is worth watching .  the plot sounds a little ridiculous but i was willing to give it a chance .  maybe they could pull it off .  instead , i find that the characters have completely changed from those in the first film .  it's as if they are different people with the same names .  witness connor jumping into bed with the leader of the resistance -- where is the attitude of " who wants to live forever , when love must die " gone to ?  the love sub-plot * must * have had footage cut out .  the highlander and ramirez both seemed aware of powers they had never mentioned before .  putting our heroes in deadly situations and then having them walk away because of some new power is very annoying .  i still want to know why connor's coat becomes flame proof when he is immortal !  we are not given enough time on zeist to believe in it , nor are we told why advanced aliens still use swords to kill .  why not dynamite or laser saws or just plain bullets followed by a quick chop to the neck ?  i know the head needs to come off but you could at least immobilise your opponent with laser rifles first .  to be fair one assassin tried this but he must be the world's worst shot .  meanwhile connor develops luke-skywalker-like powers of laser beam deflection .  as for " bad guys , " we see a rebellion on zeist , crushed easier than a grape and then the rest of the plot depends on katana being obsessed with killing mccleod in case he returns to zeist .  two assassins are sent , presumably they are meant to be good at killing but an aged connor kills them both with no problems .  no more assassins are sent .  katana , supposedly a very powerful man goes himself to kill connor .  has he no more assassins ?  has he no better ?  why was the rebellion crushed so easily then ?  michael ironside is totally unconvincing ( bring back the kurgan ) .  he seems like a cartoon character and really isn't that evil , just stupid and violent .  we see the hollywood trick of the chief nasty threatening a child again and killing lots of innocents .  yet he still seems like no threat -- perhaps because he seems too stupid to threaten connor , or maybe because his two best assassins wouldn't have been amiss with larry , curly and mo .  so much for plot and characters .  the music is atrocious .  it is at best intrusive and at worst annoying .  bring back queen .  there was an audible sigh ( of relief ? )  when connor played a queen track in a juke box .  i believe this at least is to be corrected for the american release .  the acting is at best flat , except for mr . connery .  lambert is uninteresting and when he delivered " there can be only one " this time around it just made me wish there had only been one -- highlander .  michael ironside is unconvincing ; sorry , michael , i usually like you and everyone else was incredibly forgetable .  so why 2/10 ?  visually the film is interesting at all times .  it has a blade runner feel to it and some of the special effects are quite stunning .  add to this an irrepressible sean connery who smiles throughout the whole film -- or is he smirking to himself ?  his lines and delivery might make the film worthwhile had it not been so obvious that he cannot take the whole thing seriously at all but hey -- * i'd * have done it for 12 million .  oh , and i agree with a previous reviewer , she * does * look like sharon stone but i believe it is her first film .  incidentally there is a line producer credited and i hear rumours of highlander iii : the wizard . 
pos@ the characters in " palmetto " collectively sweat enough to fill lake erie , and it's just the right way to capture the film's ripe atmosphere of sensuality , tension and even farce .  this humid florida-set thriller nurtures a modestly absurd edginess that often winks at itself , which is very much a good thing since the actors and director are in on the joke .  as far as set-up is concerned , the movie is nothing we haven't seen before , but be patient -- " palmetto " spins some pretty wicked story twists that we really don't see coming .  it's not a classic by any means , but it sure is quite an engaging surprise .  harry barber ( woody harrelson ) is fresh out of prison , where he's served a couple of years for a crime he didn't commit .  even though he harbors animosity towards the obtuse local officials , harry's first order of business is to return to his home town of palmetto to be with his sculptor girlfriend nina ( gina gershon ) .  while searching for work , he catches the eye of rhea malroux ( elisabeth shue ) , the mysterious sexbomb wife of a palmetto millionaire .  rhea proposes a scheme that'll get harry $50 , 000 easy -- to play a small part in the staged kidnaping of her jailbait stepdaughter odette ( chloe sevigny ) .   " you do like risks , don't you , mr . barber ? "  rhea alluringly coos .  boys , form a line behind me .  part of " palmetto " 's success can be attributed to the performance of elisabeth shue , who demonstrates here that her oscar-nominated turn in " leaving las vegas " might merely be foreshadowing great things to come .  shue's a seductive , campy delight , and pulls off a barbara stanwyck-gloria swanson combo with admirable relish .  the other actors form a solid ensemble around her , including sevigny ( " kids " ) , tantalizingly slutty as a teen tease , as well as the ever-likeable gershon , cast a far cry from her extreme roles in " bound " and " showgirls . "  harrelson is still doing fine follow-up work to " the people vs . larry flynt . "   " palmetto " does have its share of grievances .  harrelson's narration is needless , i suppose , and gershon's nina cries to be meatier than she ultimately is .  one of the plot's unexpected angles -- that harry is asked by the police to become the press liaison for the very crime in which he's involved -- could have been played a little better .  there are moments when you question the tone , but it's never so unstable that it deserves the reproach it's been receiving from most other critics .  if " palmetto " didn't want to be laughed at , would it really have tacked on a climax that plays like a live-action " who framed roger rabbit " ?  although a few elements can be questioned , the movie works well on its own terms .  thanks to a juicy cast -- especially shue -- and the nifty material approach from director volker schlondorff ( you remember him from last summer's suddenly re-popular " the tin drum , " right ? ) ,  everything runs smoothly .  and for fans of revelation-heavy endings , this film's got a few shocks in store that i won't even dream of revealing .   " palmetto " is a generous amount of fun to watch , and that's all you need to know . 
neg@ not a great twelve months for either of the principals from this movie .  earlier this year , nora ephron wrote and produced one of the year's least likeable " comedies " called hanging up , featuring a bunch of annoying women ( ironically , lisa kudrow played one in that film as well ) who barely have time to care about anyone but themselves .  ick . . . real  sweet stuff .  but her little unsuccessful project was nothing compared to what john travolta went through earlier this summer , with a film entitled battlefield earth .  i seemed to be the only person on this planet who somehow appreciated the film , even if it was on a " cheese " factor , as everybody , and i mean everybody else , pretty much classified the movie as one of the worst disasters of all time .  yipes . . . another  beauty .  so what happens when you put these two people in the same room and come out with a movie co-starring the ever-versatile lisa kudrow ?  uhhhm , you guessed it . . . not  much .  plot : in order to escape major financial difficulties , a local weatherman hooks up with his ball-picking lotto girlfriend and rigs the state lottery .  but as more and more people find out about their scheme , more and more people demand a part of their winnings , and more and more problems arise .  critique : simply stated , i didn't laugh once during this entire picture .  for a comedy , it offered me a few smiles , a bunch of nincompoops as characters , a miscast john travolta hamming it up and lisa kudrow , in what can only described as a " sluttier " version of her character of phoebe on tv's " friends " .  this film was not as disastrous as i thought it would be , but it was pretty close .  thankfully , the clips of travolta dressed up in goofy outfits , dancing as the weatherman were left in the film's trailer , and not in this final cut .  and not unlike the worst movie of the year so far , beautiful , this film also managed to feature many unsympathetic , idiotic and just plain irritating characters in its cast .  foremost was travolta's character , who declined to give us any reason to care for him once in the entire movie .  and for me , the casting choice of john travolta for this role was just plain wrong .  he didn't fit the part .  i just saw him in get shorty the other day and thought about how perfect he was for that role .  a cool , calculating roughneck with a certain hip , suave " je ne sais quoi " .  in this film , he looks like he's trying to be funny , trying to be bad , trying to be good .  we're not supposed to be able to notice that , and when we do , at least in my case , i consider it a wrong choice in casting .  add that to lisa kudrow , boring us with yet another one of her patented " dumb blonde " routines , but this time , dressed in sexier outfits .  michael rapaport , stretching one small acting muscle to play the guy who isn't quite up at the same speed level as everyone else .  and a truckload of empty comedic bullet shells , and you've got yourself an extremely quiet audience anticipating punch lines that never quite materialize .  the only real good thing that i could say about this film is that its story was actually half-interesting and never really bored me .  i also liked michael moore's perverted cousin character , and i loved , and i say it again , loved the character that bill pullman played .  give this dude his own movie !  he played a lazy cop , a man who tries everything not to do any real work .  he fakes injuries to get off duty , tries to avoid arrest situations so that he won't have to fill out any forms . . . now  there's a base of humor .  sadly , the filmmakers decided to bring him into play with only about half an hour left in the film .  and there's not much else i can say about this movie , folks .  on the whole , it was lame , included a slew of unlikable characters fiddling around in a pool of unfunny lines , and very little of interest for any target audience .  but get somebody to write up a movie featuring that lazy cop played by pullman and i'm there ! 
pos@ it's been a good long while since we had a good old fashioned thriller , where mostly everything goes right for the audience and wrong for the characters , but it's been even longer since i saw a thriller that actually * shock * cared for the characters , not merely judged them but actually allowed their human foibles , flaws , and strengths to emerge so radiantly .  i'd saw that it's been at least a couple decades , even as far back to the great hitchcock thrillers , though i'm hardly comparing " a simple plan " to , say , " rear window " or " strangers on a train . "  yet it's almost as good .  it's simple , yet strangely complex , and astonishingly rewarding , because instead of moving from plot point to plot point , and merely laying out they-might-be-caught overtones , it instead concerns itself with the moral corruption and depths of greed that its protagonists can go to , all without ever judging them as either evil or even immoral .  elegantly directed by sam raimi ( yes , the same ) , " a simple plan " concerns itself with the discovery of a crashed plane and within a bag full of millions of dollars by an upright , moderately financially stable working man ( bill paxton ) , his dim-witted brother ( billy bob thornton ) , and his drinking buddy ( brent briscoe ) .  without anyone around , and the possibility that no one would come looking for it , the three debate and debate but finally reach the decision that yes , they will keep it , but until any authorities or possible owners of the cash come looking , and so they generally don't flaunt anything they don't want to flaunt , they'll keep it stored away in the custody of paxton .  the possibilites of this circumstance are much diverse : a ) they could endlessly play cat and mouse with the authorities ; b ) they could try to fight off the rightful owners , who are either villainous or just ; or c ) they could fight amongst themselves .   " a simple plan , " though borrows a little from each of these .  a little tiff with the cops here , a subplot involving an alleged fbi agent ( a chilling gary cole ) there ) , and a bit of inside feuding over here .  but , as austin powers would say , that's not necessarily its bag ( baby ) .  what i most admired about this film , and what makes this a far superior and unique thriller is that it's successfully able to have its cake and eat it too .  it effectively involves some of the traditional thriller cliches , like the ones mentioned above , but at the same time , it involves itself more deeply with the way the characters become morally corrupt and what price they have to pay to have what they think is happiness in a black duffle bag .  so while steps are taken to neatly cover things up , and these subsequent steps go miserably awry , the film choses to never loose the sight that in covering things up to the extent that these characters have to , they are slowly losing their souls and their humanity .  in one early scene , paxton and thornton have to make a trip back to the plane to return some of the money so it doesn't look like it was all stolen ( not a bad idea ) , when thornton screws up ( as he does continuously throughout the movie ) , and paxton has to do some major covering-up ( read : homicide ) .  instead of a quick murder and immeadiate hands-washing , raimi shows a lengthy , painful shot from a low-angle onto paxton's face as he tries to sift through his emotions and reach a conclusion .  there's a similar shot afterwards of paxton watching the murder he's committing and taking in all the horror which is also wonderfully effective , but the previous shot is even better : more morally complex and more gut-wrenching .  in short , probably the best piece of direction raimi's ever done , demonstrating once again that sometimes the simplest way to do something yields the best results ( for further proof , watch " persona " 's " sex scene " and witness what may be the best scene ingmar bergman's ever done ) .  but the film hardly stops here ; it follows completely through and rarely loses sight of its characters humanity and the depletion thereof .  yet it also moves from step to step in such a graceful method that we never feel like the film is merely stamping out the plot points of the story .  when the time comes for paxton to start becoming selfish and thus diabolical ( with aid from his pregnant wife , played by bridget fonda , a pal to raimi ) , he does , and soon the horror of the situation is escalating to tragic heights .  there's at least two grand shootouts , and at least one of them may be one of the greatest shootouts in cinema history , and when they arrive , they don't come with masochistic delight but with cringe-inducing horror .  during the one , i was actually sinking into my chair , with the mantra " they can't do this , can they ? "  streeming through my head .  in fact , this film , which is getting many comparisons to the coen's [superior , but forget about it] " fargo , " has many similar moments of manic insanity , attributed to the major amount of subtlety and restraint with which the directors direct what , in other hands , would be over-the-top distractedness ( imagine , i suppose , robert rodriguez directing this . . . then  again , after seeing the " evil dead " films , i'd hardly assume raimi would be able to pull something like this off , although there are moments of the film which are easily dubbed " raimi " moments , a rifle-shot notwithstanding ) .  instead , raimi directs with maturity and a gentle touch , easily letting the story and characters co-exist , while still letting some of the more traditional raimi elements come out , like some offbeat comic touches .  most particularly , billy bob thornton's character , jacob , is a brilliant creation .  his dim-wittedness is often hilarious ( for most of the film , every line he uttered was greeted with howling laughter ) , but there's authenticity to the performance that strangely enough makes sure that we're not totally laughing at him .  the chuckles he gets are not necessarily ones of full-condescension because thornton is so damn real .  jacob's a multi-dimensional character , and while being stupid , we see that as not so much a flaw , but a strength to his character : his simplicity is endearing and many of the acts he commits are out of a strong inner strength and belief system , primarily towards the middle where his bud and co-conspirator begins to make some heavy waves concerning the money .  the final third of the film spends much time with him , and many of the touches upon his character , not only by thornton but also by screenwriter scott b . smith ( adapting his own book , by the way ) are just great .  i particularly admired a back story about an old high school girlfriend , told by thornton with such sincerity and acception that the cruel story is reversed to near-sweetness and further strength of his saddened character .  thornton is absolutely brilliant in this performance , by far the best performance he's ever given and further proof that he's the best character actor in contemporary cinema ( if you don't believe me , go back and watch his wonderful performance in " primary colors , " a performance that would have been nominated for an oscar if this hadn't been in the same year ) because he's easily able to slip into a character , and make him completely and utterly believable .  he brings so much weight to the film that , as it is with most character actors , it's difficult picturing anyone else in the role .  the rest of the cast is great too , from paxton's declining working man to chelcie ross' amiable town sheriff .  even fonda shows off her talents nicely .  and if i had any complaints about the film , it's that the plot is almost too simplistic , and that at times , it seems too much like an exercise , like a cruel test on humanity that still pays attention to the humanity involved .  and the occasional narration is , as it usually is , annoying ( narration should be used with extreme caution , especially when you're trying to set things up and/or express emotions - didn't raimi watch the first murder scene ? ) .  and , the thing that can most usually go wrong with a movie , the ending is basically amiss .  i won't reveal it , but it's way too cruel and too much of an outsider set-up , as if the appearance of a plane wasn't already too much of that anyway .  for a film that deals so much and so intimately with the humanity of the characters involved , this is the wrong ending .  imagine a character-controlled ending ; otherwise , it's like if in " crime and punishment " if the police had caught him instead of him breaking down and confessing . . . not that i'm at all comparing " a simple plan " to dostoevsky .  the ending does work , despite my protestations , but to me , there was something incessantly nagging and unsatisfying about it ; but if you had no qualms and were happy as a clam with it , then just ignore me and go about your day .  but despite my mere claims , make no mistake that i was completely and utterly edge of my seat throughout , and even sometimes curdling up by the situations that occured , not because of any kind of gore factor ( which is , thankfully for this , very minimal ) , but because the film places its characters in situations and gives them such painful things to overcome that i've frankly not seen much like it in quite awhile .  at least not since the previous worthy hitchcockian masterpiece . 
neg@ pre-review note : seeing as the only concern of body shots is " sex " , i will be forced to refer to that particular act innumerable times throughout the duration of this review .  because of this , i will try to vary word descriptions of " sex " ( meaning if you are offended by pejorative terms , and \ or your name is jerry falwell , you are kindly invited to hit the x up on the left corner of your screen ) , so if there happens to be a word you come across and cannot comprehend , fret not , it's most likely just another way of referring to " sex " .  i think we'd all agree that any word used incessantly becomes a bit monotonous so i hope you appreciate my attempt to liven up what could potentially be a very boring review .  though not as boring as the movie which makes steve forbes flat tax plan seem as lively as watching a naked mathew mconaughy play the bongos while high on god knows what .  body shots is a film so frightened of coitus that scenes of copulation are filmed ominously , in the way you'd normally expect to see a violent attack .  it's about people who think about screwing , seek it out , and talk about it .  these are things we all do , sometimes .  the characters in this film spend every waking moment pondering the simplicities of sexual acts .  their lives center around the next sexual encounter , but they seemed depressed .  it's as if fucking is all they have to look forward to after a busy workweek .  at its core body shots is a message movie , the kind of thing i could picture really progressive church groups showing to middle schoolers in order to turn them off coition .  michael cristoffer ( who directed gia , another film that treated bumping uglies as if it where evil ) is a moralist with nothing new to say .  his characters don't communicate anything of interest to each other , so cristoffer gives them an opportunity to let out their inner thoughts by speaking directly into the camera .  they voice simplistic platitudes like " i like to come " or " sex without love equals violence " .  huh ?  and yes that is as complex as this movie's observations get .  the characters are stupid and shallow , with not one registering as anything more .  the plot concerns vapid over sexed twentysomethings on an all night hunt for carnal pleasure , then the after math ( the morning after ) of such events .  we meet the characters as they speak directly to us , confiding in us with their idiotic ruminations on intimacy .  i would normally go into the characters and the actors who play them , giving you the pros and cons , but for this film i cannot .  i'm not trying to be clever or witty , but i honestly hardly remember anything that would set them apart from the others .  with the exception of trent ( played by ron livingston as a bargain basement patrick bateman ) , the rest fade into each other-- a patchwork of fake breasts , defined abs , pearly white teeth , and creamy , flawless skin .  i vaguely recall brad rowe as the sensitive one , only because his character gets the worst lines ( " sex without love equals violence " ) .  in between all the confessionals , cristoffer films everything like a headache commercial , with blurry slo mos and dramatic head turning .  the fact that this director at one point won a pulitzer prize completely baffles me .  this film is made without one iota of intelligence or insight into the generation that its tag line claims to be defining .  if body shots is meant to say that all twentysometyhings are idiotic and f * * k-obsessed , fine , i don't have any problem with a film that tries to persuade me to think a certain way , but cristoffer only gives us one side .  additionally that one side isn't even entertaining ; the characters indulge in buggery without an ounce of sexiness .  or realism .  one sexual encounter takes place outside a club on a chain link fence between the two most sensitive characters .  they suddenly have vigorous intercourse with each other for no apparent reason ( other than that they both happen to be standing next to each other ? ? ? alas , if it could only be that easy ? ? ? kidding of course ) , then , not only isn't it erotic , it isn't real .  it doesn't feel like an authentic sexual encounter .  every f * * k scene in this film ( and there are many ) is treated in the same unsexy manner .  body shots makes fornication dirtier than the most scummy porno film .  it shows us none of the pleasure that should go along with it , and most of all , it fails to show us why its characters love making it so much if they seem to hate the act of actually doing it .  the resulting search for nookie ( and you can take that cookie ? ? ? ) over one night leaves us with several tedious plot lines to follow .  the main concern is much ado over a rape that may or may not have occurred .  the film shows us two separate versions of the possible rape ( one where it is consensual the other where it is not ) and in both versions the young actress playing the possible victim gets her shirt torn off .  this is a topic that could be interestingly explored if done intelligently , and if memory serves me i can't think of one film that has done so , and yes i saw the accused which may be one of the most overrated movies of the 80's next to wall street .  unfortunately nobody gives us reason to care , not the writer , the director or the actors nearly all of whom seem to have wandered off the set of a noxious 90210 spin off .  paul thomas anderson approached boogie nights in a manner similar to what cristoffer does here , though boogie nights succeeded .  it was similarly moralistic , but it gave us two different viewpoints ; it showed us how the lifestyle of porn enticed its characters , and it showed us the possible fall-out of such a decision .  the characters in boogie nights were as idiotic as the characters are here , but anderson seemed to care about them .  he gave them heart .  cristoffer gives them nothing but raging hormones .  he preaches to us , by using his characters to preach to us .  this is not the way to get any message across .  why not just direct a public service announcement on the perils of hittin' skins ?  cristofer kind of does that , though without an ounce of insight , and with a helping of leering exploitation . 
pos@ as any sociologist will attest , your childhood and the types of parents that you have will heavily influence your happiness as an adult .  parents that are supportive and environments that are nurturing will yield children who will embrace the values and norms that can allow them to live healthy and productive lives .  but if your upbringing is marred with violence , hate and dysfunctionality , then your journey towards a happy adulthood will be saddled with psychological obstacles almost too great to overcome .  `affliction' explores how a man never truly escapes the grip of an unforgivingly nightmarish childhood .  the man in question is wade whitehouse ( nick nolte ) .  here is a man who is like any other citizen on the surface .  he is a productive member of the community and goes about his daily routine much like you and me .  but as you scratch beneath the surface , something scary and evil begins to rear its ugly head .  we see that he is a mean-tempered person .  he has a hard time taking control of his emotions , which usually gets the better of him .  he is quick to apologize for his actions and wants to be a gentle person , but something is sparking a tendency towards violence .  he also has tremendous problems with relationships .  he is divorced and his only connection to love is his daughter .  but his bearish persona and stature alienates her .  he is visibly shaken by her rejection even though she says that she loves him .  his demeanor also puts his relationship with a local townsgirl ( sissy spacek ) at risk .  she tries to remain true to him and supportive , but for women unlucky enough to attach themselves to this kind of person , relationships will ultimately end like sentences ending with an exclamation point .  finally , he is spiteful and vindictive .  as a rejected father , he initiates a custody battle that seems hopeless .  as the town's only police officer , he issues a speeding ticket to a man whose father has just died .  we can see that this is a man that is both afflicted and living with pain .  he is a prisoner and a slave to it .  he is moving towards a level of madness and insanity that defies comprehension .  what kind of force can move a man to the edge of his emotions and beyond the reach of people who genuinely care for him ?  we learn that the answer is his father ( james coburn ) .  this is the kind of father that every son would be ashamed to have and that any woman would be afraid to meet .  he is an overbearingly misogynistic and frequent drunk who rules with an iron fist .  we see his tyrannical behavior through flashbacks .  to heighten the father's churlishness , the flashbacks are shown as home video footage taken by a very frightened person .  very effective .  today , wade's dad is quite elderly , but still manages to instill fear into a grown man .  the influence that the father possesses is inescapable , and its unsavory effect clamps down hard on the tortured wade .  the result is every son's nightmare ? becoming like the father that one has always dreaded to be .  this is a terrifically presented piece of psychological drama , and nolte turns in a strong performance as a man whose pain seems to become a detriment as well as a necessity .  he's a hulking person who is still reduced to whimpers when in the presence of his father .  coburn displays heft as the bitter dad .  but , it's most certainly not saturday-night-friendly fare .  there's nothing light or fluffy about this film .  that may turn many moviegoers away .  but it's certainly worth noting that this is a well-acted drama showcasing nolte's and coburn's raw acting talents . 
neg@ it was once said that in order to truly enjoy some of todays movies or novels , you must suspend disbelief .   however , there is a distinct separation between opening your mind to ridiculous situations and believing a bunch of flat lies .  it came as no surprise to me to learn that huntingburg , indiana ( where the film is set ) , does not have a mcdonald's , a sears store , a statue of a man on a horse , nor even a dam close by .  even if you can ignore these somewhat white lies ( even though the dam is crucial to hard rains plot ) ; there is still a bunch of things that just dont gel .  firstly , morgan freeman , possibly the greatest actor alive ( after such films as driving miss daisy , the shawshank redemption and se7en ) , was cast as a shifty goon intent on stealing enough money for a healthy retirement .  he _should_ have played the town sheriff , an experienced and somewhat intriguing policeman .  as a massive flood started by a dam accident overwhelms huntingburg , its residents presumably flee as the water level steadily increases .  i say presumably simply because we never know what happened to them ; and it seems a tad strange that an entire town ( with the exception of some folk who get introduced along the way ) can vanish before the flood has actually started .  but nether the less , armored guard couriers tom ( christian slater ) and his uncle are carrying three million dollars in the back of their van .  with a heavy rainstorm causing depressing conditions and slippery roads , it doesnt take long for the van to end up stuck amongst mud and water off the side of the road .  jim ( morgan freeman ) and a small gang of thieves locate the van and attempt to steal the three million dollars .  but of course tom is more than willing to save the day , so he takes the money and hides it elsewhere in town .  the local sheriff ( randy quaid , whom most will remember as the drunken pilot in id4 ) and a couple of police men investigate the situation , but their morals are soon overpowered by greediness as each character contemplates what he/she would do with their share of the three million dollars .  director mikael salomon has made sure that hard rain ends up turning everything topsy-turvy , and whilst the film may at first appear to be a definite goodies versus baddies ,  there are numerous twists in its plot that make this a slightly more enjoyable experience .  but by the time these interesting changes occur , its far too late in the film for them to have much affect .  hard rains continuos corniness and lack of originality washes out whatever hope the script may have had ; and although its cast is somewhat appealing most of its stars act well below par .  not at one stage capturing what could have been a fabulous on screen battle between slater and freeman , we are left to reminisce on films that dared to do something different and achieved more than what was expected .  such titles as broken arrow ( slater and john travolta ) and face/off ( nicholas cage and john travolta ) come to mind as films that have mastered silver screen confrontations .  strangely enough , they were both directed by john woo and both star john travolta .  we can forgive morgan freeman for giving a slightly disappointing performance since he is newish to the action genre , but christian slater could have achieved so much more had the amount of crummy one liners been reduced and some personality added to his character .  if you had asked me whether slater could perform well enough to substantially boost a movie prior to the release of broken arrow , my answer would have been a definite no .  i now know that he has no excuse , and _can_ do better ( if you dont believe me rent a copy of broken arrow from your local video store ) .  although hard rain never really works from the start , i somehow felt feelings of missed opportunity when the credits filled the screen .  the addition of an enticing sub-plot would have given the film time to breathe , rather than try to cram 96 minutes of action and disaster into a story that cant handle anything else .  despite the fact that hard rain fails on almost every account , if your standards are low enough you may find this to be a mildly enjoyable film .  no creative flair and no inventive scenes means that hard rain does not stand up well against its many competitors , but it doesnt really matter since the last thing you would want to do after shelling about $8 . 50 is compare this to other films . 
pos@ near the end of frank capra's holiday classic , its a wonderful life , george bailey ( jimmy stewart ) is feeling down .  he has devoted his life to others , and never fulfilled his dream of leaving his small supburb town , bedford falls .  standing upon a bridge above stormy waters , he looks down , contemplating suicide .  he has potential he hasn't fulfilled -- yet , he has done so much for others .  as a young chap , his ambition was to leave his hometown of bedford falls .  but times and ambitions change .  things happen , and he's stuck .  his guardian angel is there , and shows him that . . . it's  a wonderful life .  in a whirlwind tour of the town , george sees what life would be like without him .  he learns the moral lesson , that to live is a gift .  his earthly problems are solved .  the climatic scene is a marvel .  frank capra's film is a centenial classic -- watched and re-experienced by every generation .  wonderful life is one of the few pictures of times gone by that seems as fresh , maybe fresher , then it did when it was first released .  many films of the thirties through seventies have aged poorly .  but this one is a near flawless example of how well a perfect script and timing can mesh with first-rate acting , wit and suspense , glorious music , and terrific set peices .  the only even slightly dated scenes are those at the begining in which god has a long chat with clarence , george's guardian angel .  they aren't all that bad , but they remain corny and a little out of place .  nevertheless , this is one film that deserves its place in time , cinema history , and our hearts .  it can be equally appreciated by anyone of any age .  here is one genuine masterpeice , a classic that reaches heights and ambitions near perfection .  this crackling good mixture results in a film which is at once funny , exciting , moving and uplifting .  the film itself is almost a reversal of the life of george bailey -- there isn't too much to it , but capra and the gang ( various screenwriters , composers , actors ) plumet the material to its fullest potential .  the result is a film -- though not at first intended to be pigeon-holed as a holiday film -- that will always be remembered , celebrated , and loved . 
neg@ the haunting , a film so confusing that it forgets the true meaning of a horror film : to scare us .  if you've ever seen a movie , which you probably have considering you are on this website , you should know about all of the trivia they post before a movie .  they have things like illustrations and you have to guess the movie or facts about the film .  but , the one i always like are the &quot ; other name&quot ; joke that try and rename a particular film .  for instance , the one playing before the haunting had different titles for the film , small soldiers .  they had titles like little infantry and can i get those fatigues in a smaller size ?  well , after seeing the haunting , i had a few particular names for it as well .  unfortunately , i can only post one of them , otherwise , i'd be getting some pretty angry e-mails from overprotective mothers .  that title would be the confusing .  ok , that is a pretty bad title , but it fits this film perfectly .  it basically serves up no purpose , and combined with dry dialogue and a boring and confusing plot , it completes the formula for a cinematic bomb .  liam neeson once again gets wrapped up in a film without any depth , but at least the phantom menace was exciting and had some depth .  the haunting is nothing but trash , but unfortunately , will still make a boatload of money .  before i rant and rave about how bad this film is , let me point out the few , and i stress the word few , bright spots in this film .  first , the house is great- looking .  it looks beautiful , but this is also a dark spot .  it looks so great that it is hard to be frightened by it .  this is something that rears its ugly head at all points of the film .  things look so great , that you are looking on in awe instead of being scared straight .  haunted house films have to contain one element to even be slightly successful and that is being eerie .  the hill house is not eerie .  it is beautiful , but not the least bit frightening .  ever heard of lili taylor ?  before this film i did not , but i am glad that i do now .  she gives the only satisfactory performance in the film .  despite the dry dialogue and boring/confusing concept , she manages to light up the screen every time she appears , but unfortunately , her co-stars are usually following right behind .  owen wilson , who plays luke , is the only other cast member even close to giving an admirable performance , other then taylor .  he is basically there for the comic relief , and his character development is poor in all other areas .  all of the characters are desperately underdeveloped .  wilson had potential as luke , but it seems they just needed him to add a few laughs .  liam neeson and catherine zeta-jones suffer from the dialogue and plot and should not have been in this film .  their characters must suffer from wicked mood swings because in each scene they turn from ruthless to compassionate to scared to brave and whatnot .  they just are not believable and this is the final nail in the haunting's coffin .  the plot is terrible .  the opening scene of the film is very important , but the director makes it too obvious by getting close-ups of all the things that will play a major role in the end of the film .  as i sat through the film , i kept wondering what this film was trying to accomplish .  nell , lili taylor's character , goes from the hunted to the savior .  it makes no sense and the director gives the audience no reasoning for the ridiculous changes that take place in the film .  he forces the viewer to make various assumptions and does not give any in-depth information .  for instance , the beginning of the film gives us a sense of why nell is getting involved in the program .  but , we get zilch for the other four .  plus , two of them get wiped out in the first ten minutes .  and the worst part : most horror films have killings .  for some reason , they kill off luke at the end of the film .  no reason whatsoever , just off with his head , literally .  overall , the haunting is the epitome of a bad movie .  bad plot , confusing storyline and a waste of good talent .  hopefully , liam neeson can rebound and get into a good film and be used to his full potential .  hopefully , lili taylor will be recognized for doing such a great job in such a bad film .  and hopefully , other horror films , such as the blair witch project and the haunting of hill house , will not be as bad as this one . 
pos@ big courtroom thrillers have always captivated america .  o . j .  simpson , tom capano , the menendez brothers .  all these names are synonymous to americans and courtrooms .  and , of course , courtroom dramas are not a new topic to hollywood .  whether it be john grisham's thrilling novels or television's famous dramas , the courtroom has always provided big bucks .  so when i rented a civil action , i was expecting the film to be like the rainmaker , a brilliant law film that kept viewers on the edge of their seat .  however , what i saw in a civil action was far different from what i expected , a major surprise , but fortunately , a pleasant one .  john travolta always seems to come up big when you least expect it .  no one expected him to light up the screen in grease , nor in saturday night fever .  but , whenever he gets knocked down , he always seems to come back fighting .  a civil action is not john's best performance , but a strong one that could rival any performance in 1998 .  travolta proves that a normal and believable performance can vault a film into oscar nominations .  his performance is not flashy , nor memorable , just solid .  if he delivered the only solid performance , this film would still be average .  luckily , he has a strong supporting cast .  william h . macy is probably one of the most underrated actors in hollywood .  he continues to deliver great performances one after the other , but he is still regarded as a secondary actor .  in a civil action , he delivers yet another great performance as travolta's paranoid and greedy accountant .  he is not a lovable character , but a character who stands out in your mind whenever you think of the film .  he is not one of the big time lawyers , just a measly accountant .  but , he delivers one of the best supporting roles of 1998 , but there is actually someone better in a civil action .  robert duvall is also an underrated actor .  he gets many leading roles , but is never heard when you hear of big box office draws like tom hanks , brad pitt and jim carrey .  duvall has a supporting role in this as a lawyer of the co-defendant .  duvall is magical in this role .  he is the wise teacher , who not only battles it out in the courtroom , but also manages to teach every major player a lesson , in his own twisted way .  in many non-comedic films , directors are always trying to find a way to implement a touch of comedy , to keep the audience on their toes .  unfortunately , they usually just key in on one character whose main objective is to be funny ( jar-jar binks , anyone ? ) .  however , this usually backfires because the character is never fully developed .  this is not the case in a civil action .  they have comedy coming from all sides .  whether it be duvall's inane questions or macy's sharp anger , the laughs come in a steady pace .  granted , it's not roll in the aisle funny , but it provides a nice addition to the film .  the plot is terrific- somewhat .  the setup is nice with the film actually starting with a victory in the courtroom .  then the case that will make or break jan ( travolta ) 's career rears its ugly head .  they find out the goldmine involved with the case and wind up taking it .  however , budgets soon flounder and jan finds himself in deep debt .  i will not spoil the rest , although i must speak of the one downside to the film .  the courtroom debates are great , but the actual problem they are fighting for is never fully explored .  it left me somewhat confused , although the rest of the film is terrific .  all in all , john travolta is back yet again in this great film .  his supporting cast , consisting of macy and duvall , turn in tremendous performances , which ease the load on travolta .  the film is smart , witty and thought provoking .  not only does it gauge in-court battles , but also the various tolls it can take on the major players .  a civil action provides everything a drama lover craves . 
neg@ humanities quest for knowledge never ends .  so a team of scientists and film-makers travel to the amazon to search for a legendary indian tribe .  the party consists of anthropologist steven cale ( eric stoltz ) and the camera team consisting of terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) , danny rich ( ice cube ) , gary dixon ( owen wilson ) , denise kahlberg ( kari wuhrer ) and warren westridge ( jonathan hyde ) .  early on their journey they meet paul sarone ( jon voight ) whose boat is stuck on the shore .  they agree to give him a ride to the next village .  he claims to know the area well and can be useful locating the native tribe .  very soon their friendliness backfires on the group because sarone turns out to be a snake hunter without scruples who only wants to catch a giant anaconda and sell it to a zoo .  we don't have to wait too long for the giant snake .  she just had a panther hors d'oevre and now is looking for the main course .  our heroes paddle around in the amazonas as if it were the pool in their own backyard .  no wonder giant animals mistake their splashing for a dinner bell .  our anaconda is a polite one and swallows the first victim in one big gulp .  enjoy !  so much for the first attempt to catch her .  but who would want to catch a giant snake with a fishing pole ?  our villain sarone shows his soft side when he stops terri from shooting the snake .  too bad that anaconda is just about to strangle another member of the expedition .  one by one she goes after the others .  eric stoltz is stung by a giant wasp right in the beginning and is mercifully unconcious for the rest of the adventure .  the rest of the crew keeps entertaining the viewer although not the way the makers of the movie had planned .  however the scenes without the anaconda are rather boring .  whenever the leading lady shows up we're in for a laugh .  the snake reminds us of a favorite character of a famous animated movie even if she should be an awe-inspiring monster .  her attacks always follow the same plan : one last hypnotic look - she's looking at you , kid - then she speedily wraps herself around her victim and starts to gush it down .  mostly we don't see the act of devouring .  but she looks nice when she wiggles away with her bulging middle part .  whoever did the special effects on this movie may have wanted to go to a zoo first and study some real snakes .  maybe then the anaconda model would have looked more real .  the animatronics are somewhat more believable .  but that didn't work for the strangling scenes .  don't go see the movie for the f/x .  they are everything but up-to-date .  the viewer who likes to watch the end credits will see to his/her surprise that a snake expert was a consultant for the team .  we may doubt though that he has ever seen the final result of his work .  a well known american science magazine is also mentioned in the credits , but i will refrain from naming it here to avoid further damage to its reputation .  the majority of viewer will have left the theater as soon as the credits start rolling , anyway .  what kind of audience is the target group for this movie ?  hard to say .  this can't be a serious horror movie , or can it ?  see for yourself . 
pos@ the laserman : somehow the title of writer-director-producer peter wang's film conjures up images of superheroes , like ultraman and spiderman .  you kind of expect an adventure flick about a crime fighter who can shoot laser beams from his fingertips .  as it turns out , the laserman _is_ about crime and about laser beams , but there aren't any superheroes .  instead , wang's film is populated by a group of refreshingly off-beat characters living in the ultimate cultural melting pot : new york city .  the laserman is a comic brew which celebrates ethnicity , eccentricity , and electricity .  the film tells the bizarre story of arthur weiss ( marc hayashi ) , a chinese-american laser scientist whose life becomes incredibly hectic after he accidentally kills his lab assistant in an experiment .  he loses his job but finds work with a mysterious company which secretly plans to use laser technology to commit dastardly deeds .  arthur's professional life is cluttered with moral dilemmas .  his personal life , on the other hand , is cluttered with colorful friends and quirky relatives .  in fact , arthur is by far the blandest character in the film , despite a charismatic performance by hayashi ( the san francisco-based actor whose films include chan is missing and the karate kid ii ) .  it's the auxiliary characters who give the laserman its unique spark .  arthur's not-so-typical jewish mother , ruth , for example , is convinced that a chinese soul is trapped in her jewish body .  she has dyed her red hair black , she takes herbal medicine daily , and she is perpetually cooking up strange delicacies , such as matzo balls in soy sauce--the ultimate fusion of jewish and chinese cuisine .  veteran stage actress joan copeland takes the part and runs with it , almost stealing the movie in the process .  she plays ruth as a driven woman , determined to overcome her genetic heritage by immersing herself in chinese culture .  arthur's girlfriend janet ( maryann urbano ) is a kooky free-spirit who would rather meditate than copulate ; her ultimate goal is orgasm through zen meditation .  arthur's best friend , joey ( tony leung ) , is a small time thief who hustles everything from microwave ovens to machine guns .  joey is married to arthur's jewish sister , but he is also having an affair with a chinese immigrant who works in a whore house .  arthur's 11-year-old son , jimmy , played by the amazingly adorable david chan , is--horror of horrors--bad at math !  he finds it impossible to meet his father's lofty expectations .  the various people in arthur's life come together to form a rich tapestry of humanity .  like wang's earlier film , a great wall ( about a san francisco family visiting relatives in china ) , the laserman revolves around cultural differences .  every character in the film is , in some way or another , trying to find his identity--struggling to negotiate a balance between his native culture and the american way .  the movie also offers a provocative look at technology .  wang appears in the movie as lieutenant lu , a detective who is fed up with machines , even though he relies on them to do his job .  the film views technology with a wary eye , acknowledging its necessity while at the same time realizing its potential dangers .  wang raises the time-honored question of whether scientists should be held responsible for their inventions .  was einstein responsible for the a-bomb ?  is arthur weiss responsible for his lasers ?  the movie pits spirituality against technology , man against machine , and the result is a draw .  according to the film , technology has its place , but we must employ it with great forethought and caution .  ironically , by its very nature , the laserman is a triumph of technology--the technology of filmmaking .  wang's direction is exquisite , especially during the tense finale in which the director frantically cross-cuts between the various subplots , perhaps in homage to d . w .  griffith .  cinematographer ernest dickerson , who has worked on all of spike lee's films , gives the laserman a distinctive , artistic look .  mason daring's score , which includes a send-up of bach , is right on target .  the laserman is an ambitious endeavor , which is to be applauded , but it's sometimes ambitious to a fault .  wang serves up so many slices of life in the film that it's hard to digest them all .  for instance , one character ( arthur's sister ) has negligible screen time , and consequently we just don't care about her marital problems .  in weaving his web , wang has included a few too many strands .  overall , however , the laserman is a charmingly eclectic concoction .  on the surface , the film is a light and bouncy comedy-thriller , overflowing with whimsical humor and visual style .  the heavier issues emerge only when you take a deeper look at the film .  you can ponder the moral questions or you can just sit back and enjoy the absurdity of life in china town . 
neg@ one of the contributors to the destruction of the batman film franchise chris o'donnell stars in this remake of buster keaton's 1925 silent film seven chances .  now i've never seen seven chances , as i'm more of a chaplin fan than a keaton fan , but i seriously doubt that the classic version could be as insipid as this .  o'donnell plays jimmie shannon , the manager of a pool table manufacturing company .  he also fears commitment , and despite dating anne ( renee zellweger ) for over three years , he's unwilling to marry her .  his reasons ?  well he's a guy you see , and well , guys are like stallions , and they apparently don't like to be roped or something ( hey , that's the movie's explanation . . .  i'd marry renee zellweger in a second ) .  eventually it comes time for jimmie to propose , and when he does , it's the most absurd proposal ever uttered by a man ever .  he essentially says to her , " you win " and hands her a ring .  the audience should now hate this character .  i did .  then the meat of the plot presents itself .  jimmie's grandfather ( peter ustinov , completely wasted ) dies and leaves jimmie his entire estate of 100 million dollars as well as ownership of the pool table business .  however , in order to get the money and save the jobs of the factory workers , jimmie must be married before his next birthday ( which is just over 24 hours away ) .  having blown his chances with anne , jimmie proceeds to track down all his prior girlfriends and suggest a " business proposition " .  the movie wasn't half bad by this time , surprisingly .  it wasn't boring me , and even managed to read my thoughts at one point .  ustinov's character left a video will , and while he's reading the ridiculous clause in it , i thought to myself " what is this , brewster's millions ? " .  as soon as i thought it , hal holbrook's character actually says " what is this , brewster's millions ? "  it was quite surreal .  something happens though during the film's final act that caused me to sharply drop the rating it was going to receive .  up to that point , all of jimmie's prior girlfriends had turned down his " business proposition " which i felt was good .  at least the film wasn't painting women to be cold hearted gold diggers .  when jimmie has no other options , his goofy friend ( played by artie lange , making a career out of playing the goofy friend ) places an ad in the newspaper that somehow becomes a front page story .  at this point , 100 , 000 women don wedding gowns and head off to persuade jimmie to pick them to be his bride .  these women arrive at jimmie's location and immediately start bullying him about what he's looking for in a woman .  when he's had enough of their unjustified attacks , he tells the angry mob that there's been a mistake and he won't be marrying any of them .  as a result , the women proceed to chase him around the city , in hopes of catching him and tearing his limbs off .  this goes on for the rest of the film .  it's just chris o'donnell running from 100 , 000 obnoxious , greedy , angry and stupid women .  my groans of disgust could be heard for miles .  the film finally ended ( thankfully ) , but to this day i'm still groaning .  the bachelor is available on dvd from new line home video .  it contains the film in both full frame and in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , cast and crew info , and special dvd-rom features .  the original theatrical trailer is also on the disc , which contains scenes not in the film .  apparently there was even more footage of the gang of brides chasing o'donnell around the city , and at one point o'donnell is leaping from the tops of buses .  so that was bad enough to be cut , but the other 30 minutes of bride shenanigans was good ?  ugh . 
pos@ steve soderbergh's " sex , lies , and videotape , " which won the grand prize at the cannes film festival in 1989 , arguably began the resurgence of independent films .  made on a shoestring budget of $1 . 2 million , with then relatively unknown actors , it is a provocative , thoroughly original drama .  the film mostly focuses on the four central characters , all in their late 20's-early 30's .  ann ( andie macdowell ) , an unfulfilled housewife , is married to john ( peter gallagher ) , an insensitive lawyer , who , unbeknownst to her , is having an affair with her younger sister , cynthia ( laura san giacomo ) .  complicating matters even worse is graham ( james spader , who won best actor at cannes ) , john's old college buddy , who comes to stay at their house .  ann is absolutely won over by him , even though she clearly has stated that she has very little interest in sex .  that is the set-up for the last hour of the picture , and since the film is entitled , " sex , lies , and videotape , " it is best to keep the rest of the story developments at bay so that they will come as a genuine surprise .  director steven soderbergh has proven to be a wildly offbeat filmmaker , ranging from the independent , to the mainstream ( 1998's " out of sight " ) , to the downright kafkaesque ( 1997's " schizopolis " ) .  he is the type of director who obviously takes a lot of chances , and believes in the work that he does , and , " sex , lies , and videotape , " is probably his most confident , and maybe even best , to date .  the performances are superb from all four leads , but macdowell stands out in what is probably the main character .  she is always a very winning actress , but this is probably her most three-dimensional role that she has had ( with a close second being altman's 1993 mosaic , " short cuts " ) .  the other parts are perfectly cast as well , from spader's ominous graham , to gallagher's self-involved john , to giacomo's outspoken cynthia .  the final act of the film , especially , comes right out of left field , and turns out to be both shocking and oddly touching , and it would be criminal to give away the film's secrets .  suffice to say that , through one powerful sequence , ann is able to somewhat come out of her shell , and john learns a valuable lesson about honesty , as well as deception .  the film has one fault , however .  the characters are almost all emotionally cold and isolated from one another , and often unlikable .  if there had been a few extra scenes with gallagher , it probably would have helped , since his relationship with macdowell isn't quite as explored as i would have liked .   " sex , lies , and videotape , " although minorly flawed , is still easily a brave and adult motion picture that is far more mature and honest about its subject matter than the usual film .  soderbergh clearly knew what he was doing while he was making it , and the final product certainly proves this . 
neg@ when robert forster found himself famous again after appearing in " jackie brown " , he immediately signed up for a little film called " american perfekt " .  this was almost two years ago .  i waited patiently for the film to be released , but it never was .  finally , i forgot about it .  the other day , though , while i was perusing the selection of the local video store , i stumbled upon , you guessed it , " american perfekt " .  i immediately rented it and with a certain amount of glee , rushed home to view it .  having now seen the film , i understand why it never saw theatrical release .   " american perfekt " is a jumbled mess .  the storyline is non-existent .  it took me half the movie just to figure out what was going on .  and at that point , the only thing i really knew for sure was that the movie was * never * going to introduce a plot of some sort .  it wants to get by on quirkyness and so-called charm alone , and it just doesn't work .  robert forster plays a psychiatrist who picks up amanda plummer , and they head off on the road together .  along the way to no discernable destination , they run into all sorts of kooky and wacky characters .  i suppose this free-wheeling , no plot style is supposed to give the film an element of danger and excitment , but all it did was make me sleepy .  i'm all for trying new things within the realm of film , but not at the expense of coherence .  nothing in this movie makes sense .  the actions of the characters go unexplained , even when they're truly bizarre .  i'll give you an example , without giving too much away .  david thewlis has a part as a drifting con-man .  at one point , mid-way through the movie , he runs forster and plummer off the road with his car .  as he passes them , we see that his face is covered in blood .  do you think we would get an explanation as to what happened to him ?  you would think so , wouldn't you .   " american perfekt " is a waste of time .  nothing is gained from watching this movie , except maybe a migraine .  and if you do rent it , don't bother trying to figure out what's going on in the hopes that everything will be resolved by the end .  this doesn't happen .  and no explanation is given for the misspelling of " perfect " , either . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " osmosis jones " ( warner bros . )  if the farrelly brothers taught anatomy & physiology in school , no one would cut ever class .  this hip , live action/animation story begins as a monkey snatches a hard-boiled egg from frank , a zookeeper ( bill murray ) , who grabs it back , drops it , then gobbles up the contaminated morsel , explaining , " if it hits and ground and you pick it up within 10 seconds , you can eat it . "  like " fantastic voyage " ( 1966 ) , the pseudo-science animation then takes over when his body's immune system contacts traffic control as an ingested virus hits the digestive system : " be on the alert for illegal organisms ! "  eager to right " a stomach evacuation mistake " he once made , a cocky , clever , courageous white blood cell ( chris rock ) declares , " this is a crime scene ! "  and teams up with a conscientious " phi beta capsule " 12-hour cold remedy called drixenol ( david hyde pierce ) to chase down and destroy the deadly " red death " virus ( laurence fishburne ) that's determined to take frank down in 48 hours , beating ebola and e . coli to a medical record .  watch out for mucus mudslides , chaos in cerebellum hall and the detritus from booger dam ( runny nose ) , along with comic turns from molly shannon and chris elliot , plus the voices of william shatner and brandy norwood .  peter and bobby farrelly , along with writer mark hyman and animation directors piet kroon and tom sito , have turned their penchant for gross-out comedy , encompassing flatulence , festering sores and " popping a pimple without a permit , " into a funny , farrelly-funny family film .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " osmosis jones " is a wildly imaginative , original , explosive 7 .  and perhaps , as they're laughing , kids will learn where to find their uvula , along with nuggets about nutrition and hygiene . 
neg@ a big , busy boxing satire with a surprisingly paltry punch , the great white hype stars samuel l . jackson as a shameless boxing promoter whose plan to boost sagging pay-per-view revenues is to " invent " a white contender ( peter berg ) to challenge his black heavyweight " champ " ( damon wayans ) .   ( the logic is that people will pay more to see black vs . white than black vs . black . )  he may be right , in an absurdly accurate way , but the film doesn't give us a reason to care .  as a scathing sports spoof , hype is just that : unfunny , unfocused , and , at times , just plain pointless .  as a commentary on race relations , it's even * less * effective .  the dialogue is the best of this mess , lines like jon lovitz exclaiming " i cannot make caviar out of fish eggs ! "  writers tony hendra and ron shelton also do good on the street slang , though we never hear enough of it .  the script isn't strong enough , though , to support the aggressive camera work of director reginald hudlin ( house party ) .  he comes across as absolute overkill .  the great white hype * almost * turns around at the end , at the big match , when hudlin attempts an extended gag of rock-concert proportions .  with costumed dwarfs , gangsta rappers , and the " champ " dressed as death , only then do we get a glimpse of the spoof that should've been . 
pos@ in tim burton's `sleepy hollow' , there is a mysterious headless horseman who decapitates residents of the small town of the same name .  he rides a beautiful black steed and carries an imposing sword that cauterizes the wound of his victims with an immediate swipe .  burton's update on washington irving's classic tale of `the legend of sleepy hollow' offers us the mystery of the horseman , when the screenplay should have merely settled on the aspect of the horror .  writer andrew kevin walker ( `seven' ) throws in perhaps too healthy a dosage of sherlock holmes , but the visual treatment of the film is absolutely entrancing , as burton offers foggy locales and detailed costumes that are gorgeous and stirring to examine .  as `sleepy hollow' opens , we're greeted with a juicy cameo from martin landau , who won an oscar in burton's `ed wood' .  landau plays a prominent citizen of sleepy hollow , who , on a fateful carriage ride through the forest , is decapitated by an unseen horseback rider .  after two more murders haunt the residents of the quaint little town , constable ichabod crane ( johnny depp ) is sent in to investigate .  landlord baltus von tassel ( michael gambon ) explains to crane that the heads have been severed from the carcass and mysteriously taken in each separate case , and that they believe the murderer is a dead hessian trooper ( played briefly by a wonderfully jarring christopher walken ) who has risen from the grave after being decapitated in the western woods .  crane is not a man of great superstition , and is determined to root out the human culprit with his assortment of gizmos and gadgets ( things i was not surprised to find in a tim burton movie ) .  first and foremost , `sleepy hollow' is a fun horror film .  as with virtually all burton movies , we are treated to a wonderful score by composer danny elfman , who has once again poured excitement and imagination into an atmospheric soundtrack that accentuates the gothic mood perfectly .  the horseman f/x are stylish and impressive , particularly in perfectly blended battle sequences involving actual actors .  but why did i enjoy `sleepy hollow' as much as i did ?  although enjoyable , it was not the numerous beheadings and the plentiful gore that spurted left and right . .  it was the light comic touch that burton applied .  the film has the sweetness of a candy apple , usually channeled through depp's wonderful performance as the lovable geek ichabod crane , who is no longer a mild-mannered school teacher but still attains his cowardly qualities .  this is certainly not the only alteration that's been made .  as the film progresses , it becomes apparent that walker is more concerned with the mystery of the murders than the murders themselves .  the momentum is slowed considerably once crane begins piecing the mystery together , because for the audience , it's not an issue we particularly wish to be solved .  it's more effective for the headless horseman to be an elusive demon than an elusive demon with an ulterior motive .  still , we are still captivated by the breathtaking technical detail and burton's keen eye to capture our attention .  the costuming is exceptional , and the dialogue is crisp and effective throughout ( it's recognizable that the script was refined by award-winning playwright tom stoppard ) .  the supporting cast exhibits more color and playfulness than many .  a blonde christina ricci is in fine form as von tassel's daughter katrina , and an unlikely romance between she and ichabod is surprisingly consistent .  walken , michael gough ( who appeared in burton's `batman' films ) and miranda richardson are all enjoyable in tackling their separate roles .  i suppose the strengths behind `sleepy hollow' lie within the central trio : director burton , constable depp and the headless horseman who hunts him down with ruthless accuracy .  all of this is not to be taken seriously , of course .  `sleepy hollow' is a lavish , frightening and altogether amusing reworking of a classic tale that many people cherished as children .  if you've got a decent head on your shoulders , you'll have the good sense to gallop off to the theater and enjoy it one last time . 
neg@ some movies ask you to leave your brain at the door , some movies ask you to believe in the impossible to really have a good time .  playing god asks just one simple , eensy , teensy thing so it can fully entertain you , it's accomplished in just four easy to follow steps : crack open your skull , scoop out your brain , squish it under your foot several times and reverse steps two and one .  congratulations , you now have all the necessary requirements to fully enjoy a whole lot of nothing .  some movies fail at the box office but you manage to see why the producers thought it could have been a good movie , others are simply good ideas that are badly executed .  then there's playing god , which enters the esteemed category of movies which seem to have grown from the union of a drunk director , actors satisfied in the knowledge that this horrible flick will have no lasting impact on their careers and a bunch of rip-offs ( or homages as they like to call it ) from other , better movies that end up looking like an unflushed toilet .  harsh ? maybe .  justified ?  hell yes !  this is a movie that is not just satisfied in ripping off other movies but feels the need to remind us of that fact every ten minutes .  for example , a gunman bursts into a garden with the two guns in his hands firing away .  this does look moderately kool , but the camera lingers on the actor for so long you can almost hear the director yelling : " oooh , look look !  john woo !  two guns blazing !  slooooow motion ! "  and if that wasn't enough , you can also hear the script grunting under the effort it must take to try and make every single line of dialogue sound like something deep and meaningful like in a tarantino movie .  poor timothy hutton gets to deliver most of the corny lines , you have to admire the effort he puts into it , this guy deserves better .  unlike most movies this one does not suffer from " stupid bad guy " syndrome , just to make things a little different this time we get stupid heroes .  example : duchovny manages to distract a bad guy by making him go into the bathroom to get some bandages .  now the bad guy is , like , stoned , man , so he leaves his shotgun next to our hero .   ( term used as loosely as possible )  survival instincts and a good dose of common sense seems to suggest grabbing the shotgun , which our hero does , but only after contemplating it for about thirty seconds .  even when he does grab it he seems unsure how to hold it , going so far as to actually wonder if he should place a finger near the trigger .  mind you , i've never fired a shotgun in my life but believe you me that the bad guy would be missing most of his vital organs , be he stoned or not .  some will argue that our hero does not have a killer instinct , the hell with that !  two fbi guys have just been shot in front me , along with one bad guy and the other looks like he might go ballistic at any second .  solution ?  boom !  i'll take the time to feel sorry about it later thank you very much .  another prime example of the idiot hero syndrome :  our boy duchovny needs to reach his girl before something bad happens to her .  he knows the head bad guy has her on the tenth floor of a building and that he might be running into a room full of people with itchy trigger fingers .  he still has his shotgun , bring it along you say ?  no thanks , i'll just ditch it in the back of my car .  and the real kicker is this : when he reaches the room and people start shooting at him he has the nerve to look surprised !  while we are on the subject of getting shot , why in hades were those fbi guys sitting with their backs to the door ?  i've got no formal training but even i know you never sit with your back to the door .  ask mr . wild bill , the first and only time he did not sit with his back to a wall cost him his life .  this is the major problem with this movie , any mook could have thought of a hundred ways to make it better .  is it so much to ask that hollywood actually put a little common sense into their characters ?  for instance :  our heroes hide at duchovny's summer home , now the bad guys could come knocking at any moment .  ok , this time our hero does get himself a gun and has it at his side most of the time .  but see , our hero is a drug addict and guess what ?  he chooses now to go clean and suffer through dt .  oh sure , he'll be really impressive when the bad guys come calling .  going clean is really honorable of him , but i would have waited until i did not need to be conscious or being able to fire a gun .  for an enjoyable performance by timothy hutton , plot holes the size of godzilla , getting our intelligence insulted and several " oh come on ! "  moments . 
pos@ garry shandling makes his long overdue starring film debut as an alien from a planet populated only by genetically created men , who are looking to take over the earth by propagating their own species there .  shandling is chosen for the mission , is given the name harold anderson , and is set up as a banker in seattle .  after a few disastrous " mating " attempts , he figures his best bet will be susan ( annette bening ) , a former alcoholic who eventually tells harold that she won't have sex again until she gets married .  the leader of harold's planet ( ben kingsley ) tells him to marry her , and harold is soon exposed to all the " joys " of married life .  despite its title and premise which seem to imply that this is some jerry lewis vehicle from the late 1960s , what planet are you from ?  is a very funny movie .  the plot ( which the film wisely doesn't linger on the specifics of for too long ) is of course nothing more than framework for the jokes , most of which work very well .  the material may be considered crude and tasteless by many , and i might have thought so as well had shandling not been the lead .  but he brings a sort of pathetic charm to the role , and it's his performance that makes the film truly funny instead of just offensive .  plus if you think about it , what planet are you from ?  could have very easily gone the gross-out route ( considering that shandling's character is given a detachable penis that vibrates and hums when he gets excited ) .  we never see anything though , it's all implied , which gives the film a touch of class amidst its crudeness .  i'm glad to see that someone in hollywood still understands the concept of " less is more " .  the talented supporting cast certainly adds to one's enjoyment of this film .  annette bening ( oddly playing a merged version of her real estate salesman character from american beauty and her ditzy spiritualist character from mars attacks ! )  does a fine job keeping up with shandling and makes a good catalyst for his brand of humor .  she even manages to pull off a potentially disastrous scene where she has to perform a rather goofy rendition of " high hopes " for a lengthy period of time .  ben kingsley , john goodman and greg kinnear all fare well in their performances as well , and linda fiorentino . . .  good lord , there should be some sort of law stating that no woman can be that sexy .  everything about her character in this film oozes raw sexuality .  what planet are you from ?  is available on dvd from columbia tristar home video .  the disc gives you the choice of either watching the film full frame or in its original theatrical aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 ( and enhanced for 16x9 televisions .  also included on the disc as extras : a decent making-of featurette , an isolated score track , talent files for the cast and crew , and the film's original theatrical trailer ( as well as trailers for wolf , men in black , bugsy and as good as it gets ) .  when i first saw that the disc featured an isolated score track , i actually laughed .  how great could the music for a silly little comedy be for it to get it's own isolated track ?  well as it turns out , it's a mighty fine score from carter burwell ( fargo , the hudsucker proxy ) that i enjoyed listening to again while i typed up this review .  kudos to columbia tristar for adding that feature to the disc .  what planet are your from ?  was unjustly ignored in theaters , and i hope it finds its deserved audience on home video .  this fine dvd is certainly a great way to see it .  [r] 
neg@ late in down to you , the lead female character ( julia stiles ) states her greatest fear is having an " artificial conversation " with her boyfriend ( freddie prinze jr . ) .  the irony of this statement will not be lost on audience members who have not yet walked out , fallen asleep , or otherwise given up on this pathetic attempt at romantic comedy .  the film is a multi-million dollar testament to everything artificial .  filled with characters , motivation , plot and dialogue that ring fake and shallow at every step this is an unquestionable disaster .  prinze plays a college student intent on playing the field until he falls for stiles' freshman co-ed .  at first the movie seems to be an attempt to string along scenes with the sole purpose of out-doing the previous in how " cute " it can be .  the happy couple " psychoanalyze " each other ; they pick out a song because , as prinze's dj mother ( lucie arnez ) explains , every couple needs a song ; he smells her shampoo ; she scratches his chest in the morning to let him know she wants to make love .  then , in standard romantic comedy style , things fall apart .  why ?  well , because they have to .  otherwise the couple can't make up and live ( presumably ) happily ever after .  down to you exists outside the realm of normal logic .  scenes do not connect to each other and it often seems to be attempting some sort of surrealism , but this is handled so poorly that everything comes off random and stupid instead .  a picnic scene involving the six key characters is just bizarre , not only for the stretched logic of these people hanging out together , or even knowing each other , but mostly because an unusual amount of screen time is dedicated to a goat .  the supporting characters are remarkably flat , and insultingly ridiculous as well .  stiles' best friend ( rosario dawson ) is a pot head , prinze's roommate ( shawn hatosy ) is a girl crazy fool who can't meet women , and then there are the porn stars ( zak orth and selma blair ) .  he is one of those famous porn stars who is frequently interviewed on television , does the college lecture circuit , and stars in high budget costume epic porns that are shot on film .  you know , the average porn star .  the costume epic idea gives him a reason to appear in a different ridiculous outfit everytime he's on screen , the porn angle exists just so there can be a couple of stupid sex jokes .  she is a porn star mostly so we know she's slutty , so her very existence will make stiles jealous and prinze tempted .  attempts at drama ( which means julia is going to cry ) include a pregnancy scare and the big break up .  these characters are so insipid only the most forgiving viewer would be manipulated by these weak scenes .  what happened here ?  the cast is full of likable , promising , young actors ( stiles especially seems to be going places ) .  writer/director kris isacsson has simply given them material so weak not even seasoned pros could pull it off .  in fact the whole film feels like a reworking of last year's extremely unpleasant the story of us , for teen audiences .  the direction is film-school-grad obvious .  it's stylish in a hugely self conscious way which throws in split screen , a pointless parody of " cops , " characters walking into the flashbacks of other characters , and a hilariously cheesy airport meeting between prinze and stiles where all the extras move in fast motion while the couple moves in extreme slow motion .  plus , the whole story is told flashback style , narrated by prinze and stiles directly addressing the camera .  this is the second film in a row ( following wing commander ) starring freddie prinze jr . which should have premiered on the aisles of the local blockbuster but was likely saved from that fate due to the fluke success of she's all that .  if he doesn't start making better choices fast his future films won't be so lucky . 
pos@ i was born in 1970 , which makes me barely old enough to remember bell buttons , 8 tracks and disco .  however , since i was 17 years old i've seen more than my share of adult films .  i mention this only because i thinks its important to state up front that i'm not against pornogrpahy .  i've seen enough of these films to know the range of content and quality available .  director paul thomas anderson's boogie nights offers us a view into the world of porn during the period considered to be the golden age of adult cinema , the mid to late 70s .  this was the period when x-rated movies were real movies , shot on film , shown in movie theaters and even reviewed by legitimate critics .  this was an age when porn directors actually aspired to make innovative often educational films , films that attempted to tell a real story .  one of the more fascinating aspects of this film is how , like in an any other billion dollar industry , the creative visionaries tend to be ignorant to the trends that will soon make them obsolete .  in this case , the arrival of the now ubiquitous videocassette .  burt reynold's manages to resuscitate his career portraying such an auteur , known as jack horner .  horner's has a steady " family " of performers , some of whom live in his plush l . a . home .  but in the world of porn , performers are a commodity - the fresher , the better .  when horner scouts a fresh faced stud bussing tables at his favorite discotheque , he decides to add him to his stable .  it is a pairing that leads to a meteoric rise and fall for a young man reaching his prime and an old man rapidly speeding past his .  as directed by anderson , the camera moves through many of the scenes with an eerie omnipresence and an almost childlike curiosity to peer beyond the closed door .  boogie nights provides a voyeuristic peep into the underbelly of l . a . 's hardcore film scene .  but the peep show doesnut let us walk away when the titillation ends .  the downside of voyeurism is sometimes we end up seeing things we wish we hadnut .  by the film's final image , what we we once found titillating has now become a grim reminder of the vanity of fame and the high price of realizing your dreams .  boogie nights is not about sex .  it does not glorify porn or the lifestyles of the performers .  in fact , the film isn't really about pornography at all .  pornography is merely the setting to tell a compelling story about a lost and forgotten group of people who form their own sub-culture to find acceptance of who they are .  the film goes to brilliant , often hilarious and sometimes harrowing lengths to show us that the people who choose to produce or perform in these films are generally not all that bright and lack the basic tools to function in the mainstream world .  yet , like in the lauded tarantino films , these people still have their own moral code , their own concepts of integrity and their own needs to experess themselves creatively .  the characters we meet are like a road map of dysfuntion .  first stop , the den mother ( julianne moore ) in denial about her addiction to cocaine as she tries to retain custody of her son .  second stop , the cuckold crewman ( william h . macy ) who keeps discovering his wife having sex with anyone and everyone ( the wife is played in hilarious cameos by real-life porn star nina hartley ) .  but the driving force behind the plot is 17 year old eddie adams .  eddie is blessed with a natural endowment so famous that people actually pay just to see it .  with no real ambition of his own , he hooks up with jack horner to fullfill his destiny of fame .  his alcoholic mother , clearly dissatisfied with her own lot , abuses him verbally and drives him out of the house .  horner introduces him to amber waves ( moore ) who immediately adopts him , a nuclear family is born .  the surrogate relationship that develops between amber waves and her " babies " provides some of the films most poignant scenes .  clearly , she is not even fit to manage her own life , let alone nurture these lost children .  but the need to love and be loved is so strong , they easily ignore the dangers of the less subtle addiction she introduces them to .  even the viewer is somehow lulled into feeling like the love she offers is similar to being in a real family .  then again , perhaps its not so different from real families at all .  eddie adams , who later takes on the screen name " dirk diggler " , is skillfully acted by former pop-star , mark wahlberg .  i say " former " pop star because with this performance wahlberg can officially quit his day job .  this is bold and brave territory for such a young man .  he pulls it off marvelously .  wahlberg is a " big , bright star " with a big bright future .  boogie nights plays very much in the spirit of the people versus larry flynt , without the first amendment preachiness .  its intimate studies of character make it the superior film .  wahlberg's surprising performance is on par with woody harrelson's .  but in my opinion , boogie nights , is not the best film of the year .  i got the feeling that itus 2 1/2 hour running time could have been cut by 15 or 20 minutes without losing any of its resonance .  still , if the subject matter of this film intimidates you , thereus no doubt that once you start watching boogie nights you may still feel like its not your thing , but youull find yourself grooving to it anyway . . . ya  know , kinda like disco . 
neg@ how do films like mouse hunt get into theatres ?  isn't there a law or something ?  this diabolical load of claptrap from steven speilberg's dreamworks studio is hollywood family fare at its deadly worst .  mouse hunt takes the bare threads of a plot and tries to prop it up with overacting and flat-out stupid slapstick that makes comedies like jingle all the way look decent by comparison .  writer adam rifkin and director gore verbinski are the names chiefly responsible for this swill .  the plot , for what its worth , concerns two brothers ( nathan lane and an appalling lee evens ) who inherit a poorly run string factory and a seemingly worthless house from their eccentric father .  deciding to check out the long-abandoned house , they soon learn that it's worth a fortune and set about selling it in auction to the highest bidder .  but battling them at every turn is a very smart mouse , happy with his run-down little abode and wanting it to stay that way .  the story alternates between unfunny scenes of the brothers bickering over what to do with their inheritance and endless action sequences as the two take on their increasingly determined furry foe .  whatever promise the film starts with soon deteriorates into boring dialogue , terrible overacting , and increasingly uninspired slapstick that becomes all sound and fury , signifying nothing .  the script becomes so unspeakably bad that the best line poor lee evens can utter after another run in with the rodent is : " i hate that mouse " .  oh cringe !  this is home alone all over again , and ten times worse .  one touching scene early on is worth mentioning .  we follow the mouse through a maze of walls and pipes until he arrives at his makeshift abode somewhere in a wall .  he jumps into a tiny bed , pulls up a makeshift sheet and snuggles up to sleep , seemingly happy and just wanting to be left alone .  it's a magical little moment in an otherwise soulless film .  a message to speilberg : if you want dreamworks to be associated with some kind of artistic credibility , then either give all concerned in mouse hunt a swift kick up the arse or hire yourself some decent writers and directors .  this kind of rubbish will just not do at all . 
pos@ casting " doogie howser " star neil patrick harris as mind-reading military intelligence is only one of the guilty pleasures of " starship troopers , " a hugely entertaining , mega-budgeted sci-fi yarn directed by paul verhoeven , who's making quite a recovery from his 1995 g-string epic " showgirls . "  sure , " starship troopers " qualifies as cinematic junk food , but that's forgivable when the junk food is this tasty .  everyone needs a high-calorie change-of-pace from fall's onslaught of costume dramas and other assorted oscar bait , and " troopers " does the job admirably despite its flaws .  for its first hour , " starship troopers " plays like a cheeky futuristic hybrid of " saved by the bell " and " g . i .  jane . "  in the distant years ahead , high school grad johnny rico ( casper van dien ) signs up for federal service along with his girlfriend carmen ( denise richards ) ; he gets accepted into the mobile infantry but she wants to travel to the fleet academy to become a starship pilot , so the couple is broken up .  but there's temptation awaiting both of them -- johnny's is in the form of an old friend ( dina meyer ) also in the infantry and still harboring a secret crush , while carmen attracts the eye of her flirtatious instructor ( patrick muldoon ) .  personal rivalry and sexual jealousy carry over into the final 65 minutes , when an impending alien menace begins making good on its threatening presence and obliterates part of south america , killing johnny's parents and destroying his home .  our weakening , lovesick protagonist is given new reasons to stick around the mobile infantry , and is dispatched with a group of fellow fighters to the aliens' home planet , where he will head up a ground assault to end the threat for good .  but the enemy is far smarter , more diabolical and numerous than the good guys give them credit for , and after an initial walloping , they must re-examine their strategy .  the exposition -- played like a futuristic soap opera -- is silly , but aware of its own ridiculousness enough to merit more smiles than groans .  once we get past the campy character introductions and the numerous ( but never boring ) training sessions , " starship troopers " really kicks into high gear .  its last half is all gruesomely violent action -- a fury of severed limbs , decapitations , disembowelments , brain removal , explosions and other jolt-inducers that are really going to please the 13- and 14-year-old boys lucky enough to dodge getting carded or caught on their way into this deservedly r-rated show .  the creature design and special effects are amazing as expected , and their interaction with the human actors are a realistic , imaginative high point .  it's nice to see intergalactic beasties that aren't too derivative of the titular menace from " alien . "  these monsters are appropriately terrifying sights , especially the arachnids , a spider-scorpion-crab combo that's all sharp talons and even sharper legs .  they attack in packs of hundreds , and it's a funny , scary sight to see these bugs take repeated hits and still crawl , jerk and struggle towards their intended victims in a determined , gooey mess .  it matters not that they actually have a laughable master plan in mind ( ask yourself if a species like this seems capable of carrying out such a plot ) ; these sequences of insect warfare are numerous , bloody and immensely satisfying .  the occasional dramatic moments -- one cast member's death , the final resolution to johnny's love triangle -- are botched , a testament to how " starship troopers " fails to create any strong , outstanding characters .  these bland ken-and-barbie archetypes serve the story adequately enough to keep any distractions at arm's length , but restrain the film from achieving a higher ground a la " star wars , " where even the slightest aliens had definite personality .  the acting is decent ( but never spectacular ) ; most of the performers hail from aaron spelling territory -- smallish roles on " beverly hills 90210 " and/or " melrose place " -- and it occasionally shows .  van dien , for example , is limited but perfectly likeable .  in smaller parts are the afore-mentioned neil patrick harris as johnny's best friend and jake busey ( gary's son ) as johnny's sidekick ; the latter excels at playing creeps ( see " the frighteners " or " contact " ) but seems off-kilter as a second banana .   " starship troopers " is based on the novel by robert heinlein , a sci-fi writer who hasn't exactly seen any recent adaptation justice done to any of his books what with 1994's howler " the puppet masters . "  but the overall familiarity to the " alien " trilogy -- and the promise of great gobs of gore -- could act as a crowd-drawer .  its own possible influence , however , might well work against it when the franchise continuation " alien : resurrection " opens in a few weeks .  we will know then which film to crown as the best summer movie of the fall . 
neg@ carry on at your convenience is all about the goings-on in the factory of a toilet manufacturer , wc boggs ( kenneth williams ) .  once they have won an order to manufacture 1000 bidets in two months and charles coote ( charles hawtrey ) has designed a suitable model , the factory employees set to work but are interrupted by union representative vic spanner ( kenneth cope ) and friend bernie hulke ( bernard bresslaw ) who call them out on strikes on the slightest pretext .  meanwhile , chief foreman sid plummer ( sid james ) is growing tired of his wife beattie ( hattie jacques ) and her budgie .  he would much rather live next door with fellow boggs worker chloe moore ( joan sims ) but once he discovers that the budgie can predict the winners of horse races , he is over the moon and flush with money .  his daughter , myrtle plummer ( jacki piper ) , is going out with wc's son lewis boggs ( richard o'callaghan ) and this causes conflict on the staff day out to the seaside when vic spanner vies for her attentions .  in the end , if the strike does not cease , boggs will have to close down his factory , but the support of a group of women led by coote's wife-to-be and spanner's mother , agatha spanner ( renee houston ) , try to resolve the situation .  also , sid realises that his budgie has caused him nothing but trouble since it started predicting horse race winners .  there are some good performances , as usual , from sid james and kenneth williams in their standard roles .  charles hawtrey is third billing but only appears in a few scenes .  his part is mildly amusing .  richard o'callaghan is appealing as bogg's stuck-up son , patsy rowlands is funny as miss withering , bogg's assistant , and renee houston is terrific in her small part as agatha .  however , sole acting honours go to hattie jacques as beattie plummer .  although her character is not directly involved with the main storyline , she manages to input a great deal of pathos and feeling into her character .  a marvellous performance from a marvellous actress .  the film suffers from annoying performances by bernard bresslaw and especially kenneth cope .  in his carry on debut , cope overdoes his role as spanner making him so annoying as to be unfunny .  joan sims returns as the love interest ( instead of barbara windsor ) .  sims' 'usual' part as the downtrodden wife was taken by hattie jacques .  additionally , bill maynard as fred moore is very poor .  this carry on movie tries it best to entertain the viewer : - the locations and wealth of characters are appealing .  however , the toilet humour becomes tiresome very quickly and some of the performances leave a lot to be desired .  this movie does not know where it is going .  it was made in 1971 and talbot rothwell the scriptwriter seems to be in two minds whether to go for 'bluer' jokes or to maintain the 'innocent' jokes success of most of its predecessors .  that is why this film suffers .  a minor carry on film whose major asset is the performance by hattie jacques .  the new 'minor-regulars' such as o'callaghan and piper are not able to enliven the movie and the toilet humour becomes humourless after a while . 
pos@ i had a chance to see a sneak preview of city slickers ii on campus last night .  i went in with the expectation of a film with the similar flavor which made the original such a success : personal growth and insightful humor about life .  i came away somewhat disappointed in this regard , getting some of the latter and not much of the former .  the basic plot revolves around billy crystal , who plays mitch robbins , turning forty .  he's now become the station manager of the radio station in which he worked in the original .  he's given a job at the radio station to his best friend , played by daniel stern , out of sympathy while stern's character works through his divorce .  his loser younger brother ( john lovitz ) comes to mitch's house to bum a money and place to live , all while mitch and his wife try to celebrate his birthday .  during the celebration , mitch discovers what appears to be a treasure map in curly's ( the cattle drive leader in the original played by jack palance ) old hat .  after a business trip to las vegas , crystal , stern , and lovitz stay a few extra days to go off in search of the treasure .  on the way , they run into curly's twin brother , duke , played by ( you know who ) jack palance .  first of all , the cinematography was beautifully done , especially the outdoor scenes in the desert .  the scenes are such that i would like to see some of those sights filmed myself .  there is some character development during the film .  the actors remain true to their characters and play them well , without overplaying the jokes .  the movie is a good basic adventure , with enough plot twists to provide for an ending that is difficult to predict .  the movie is paced well , but with a couple slow spots in the middle and towards the end .  humor-wise , the film has a good number of jokes which maintained my interest throughout the film .  there are memorable moments like when stern is bitten by a snake , but there are fewer jokes to laugh at in the sequel ( surprise , surprise for a sequel , right ? ) .  however , the slight bitter aftertaste i have with this film has to do mainly with the film's manipulation of the audience .  the film tries to pull your heart-strings too much regarding how close the characters are to each other , like when mitch had decided to suck the snake marrow out of his best friend's butt .  this is done again when the gang meets up with some members of the cattle drive group from the original .  there were also some parts which appeared unrealistic , like whether the stampede would start in the way it did or why they didn't worry more about water while tromping around the desert .  some strenuous stretches of the imagination are required here .  since the objective of the gang is to find gold and get rich ( unlike finding themselves in middle age like in the original ) , i also found it harder to empathize with the characters during their journey .  overall , i'd say that the film is an entertaining and humorous adventure with some story-line deficiencies making it less worthy than the original .  it may be worth the full price of admission , but a matinee would be a better bargain . 
neg@ you should have heard the old guys in the crowded bathroom following the " odd couple ii " sneak preview .  they were as happy a group of men as i've ever encountered .   " what a great movie , " exclaimed one gent at the urinal , " everything was so true ! "   " yeah , " laughed a man standing next to him , " i drive as slow as that one guy did .  my kids give me holy hell for it ! "   " and peeing is a big part of my day , just like with felix , " chuckled another fellow , as he fastened his trousers up around his nipples and prepared to rejoin his wife .  if you're over 60 and in the habit of driving at least 20 miles per hour below the posted speed limit , " neil simon's the odd couple ii " may be just the film for you .  others will likely be less charitable .  while " the odd couple ii " is amiable enough , neil simon's shockingly lazy screenplay feels like a slapped-together tv reunion show , suffering from wheezing situation comedy set-ups and jokes straight out of the borscht-belt .  simon , once the toast of broadway , has apparently shifted his sights from the great white way to the neighborhood multiplex in branson , missouri .  the contrived story , involving the marriage of their kids , provides the excuse for a reunion between oscar madison and felix unger , who haven't seen each other in 17 years .  the former roommates fly into california from their respective homes for the wedding and , quite literally , run into one another at the airport .  they take off in a rental car for the ceremony in san molina , get lost and have a series of " wacky " adventures on the road .  jack lemmon and walter matthau reprise their roles as felix the neat freak and oscar the slob .  while there is an undeniable chemistry between the pair , the impact of their reunion is lessened by the fact that they've headlined three films together since 1993 : " grumpy old men , " " grumpier old men " and " out to sea . "  still , the two veteran actors are fun to watch .  matthau , whose magnificently rumpled face looks like a big pile of laundry with eyes , has a field day as oscar , the crown prince of the curmudgeons .  lemmon , looking pastier than usual , is fine as the ever- annoying felix , who still punctuates his chronic whining with occasional allergic honks of " phnah !  phnah ! "  despite their bickering , the characters have real affection for each other , providing a welcome respite from the non-stop barrage of insults that marked their previous three films together .  unfortunately , matthau and lemmon's charm isn't enough to compensate for simon's hack script , which wouldn't pass muster even on a upn sitcom .  one contrived situation follows another , lathered with enough stale one- liners to supply a dozen would-be comics on open-mike night at the local comedy club .  if someone drags you to this film and you find yourself as bored as i was , try entertaining yourself by counting the product placements .  burger king gets one , as does the el pollo loco taco joint , but budget rent-a- car really hits the jackpot .  between script references to their business and shots of signs and stickers bearing their company name , i couldn't keep count of all the plugs .  i did , however , keep track of some of the swearing .  i came up with four " god-damns , " three " shitheads " and two " fucks . "  the inclusion of those particular profanities seemed odd for a film aimed at an older audience , but the theater full of seniors appeared to have no problem with them , howling like crazy every time the boys let rip with a naughty word .  it's sad that a writer of neil simon's stature has grown desperate enough to resort to swearing for cheap laughs , but not surprising when you look at what else gets passed off as humor in this tepid exercise .  one running gag involves oscar and felix's inability to remember the name of the town where the wedding is to be held .  at one point , the men actually spend 30 seconds just free-associating , riffing off variants of the word " san . "  the sequence is so creatively bankrupt that it is simply embarrassing .  one of the oldest maxims of film-going is " beware of movies that use the author's name in the title . "   " neil simon's the odd couple ii " is no exception to the rule .  while the production has enough minor pleasures to warrant a tv viewing on some lazy sunday afternoon , it has no business playing in a movie theater .  of course , there's a bathroom full of old guys who would strongly disagree with every word i've written , and would probably whip my " young-whippersnapper " ass to boot .  one thing's for sure , though .  they'll never catch me in a car chase . 
pos@ an indian runner was more than a courier .  he * became * the message he was carrying .  what danger is a bear , to a message ?  i used to think sean penn was an immature , arrogant , photographer- punching , madonna-marrying , loudmouth .  but all that has changed now .  the guy has grown up .  and that's not all .  it seems that sean penn has talents both as a writer and a director , if this film is any indication .  one might imagine a movie with plenty of ruthless rage and showy machismo , given penn in charge of bronson and and hopper .  but , no .  this film is about a real struggle , and the victories and defeats are not simple .  penn lets the story unfold at a pace dictated by the lives of the characters , without unnecessary rush or flash .  the focus of the story is two brothers .  david morse is the brother who has grown up in the small midwestern town in which they were raised , tending a failing farm and finally becoming a police officer .  viggo mortensen is the wild brother , whose wild behavior seems to be a reaction to some ancient pain that he can't name , much less resolve .  the film picks the story up on the day when mortensen returns from vietnam , and morse coincidentally encounters an armed youth fleeing for the state line .  it becomes clear that some kind of conflict threatens the link that the brothers once shared .  the film is unobtrusive , simple , direct , plain , and sincere .  it isn't exactly perfect , but its sincerity is well invested in the struggle of the two brothers to identify the sickness before it destroys them .  life seems to move forward a little faster than they can get a handle on their problems .  this is a good film without big budget sets , or big name stars pushed into your face .  in fact , i'm reviewing it because i suspect that it may not get much marketing .  there were perhaps 10 others at the showing i saw .  i thought the structure was clean and not oversimplified , though there are a few free-form sections which also work very well .  the obligatory 1960s music seemed a little cliche , but what are you going to do--this movie * does * take place in the 1960s after all .  in my opinion , it is worth full-price admission . 
neg@ sylvester stallone has made some crap films in his lifetime , but this has got to be one of the worst .  a totally dull story that thinks it can use various explosions to make it interesting , " the specialist " is about as exciting as an episode of " dragnet , " and about as well acted .  even some attempts at film noir mood are destroyed by a sappy script , stupid and unlikable characters , and just plain nothingness .  who knew a big explosion could be so boring and anti-climactic ?  unless you saw " blown away " . . .   " the specliast " of the title is none other than action star sylvester stallone ( in comeback #19 , i think ) , who plays a quiet , hermit-like bomber who was once a bomb expert with the army or something , but who suffered a change of heart when he and his assistant ( james woods , who shows us exactly what over-the-top is , other than another bad sly film ) accidentally killed some innocent people during a job .  his credo is killing bad people , not innocents .  and that's why he makes big bombs .  so anyway , into his life steps the seductive sharon stone , who is basically the girlfriend/moll of the stupid son ( eric roberts ) of a cuban/miami kingpin ( rod steiger , in an indecipherable accent , which is sometimes cuban , sometimes brando , sometimes scottish , etc ) .  turns out sharon is actually using her boyfriend so she can kill him , since he killed her parents when she was young .  so she calls sly , leaves messages with him , sends him e-mail , etc , about planting a bomb to kill roberts , which sly listens to obsessively , and while he works out naked .  yea .  also into his life , though again , comes woods , who has been tipped off by stone to catch sly .  using the cops , he tries to set up traps , none which really work , so when sly calls him , he goes ballisitic on his ass over the phone , getting so worked up by saying his must-be-improvised speeches that he seems to pop the vein in his head wide open .  these are the most exciting scenes in the film , and woods becomes the only ounce of entertainment in the film .  the film tries to offer us a moody film noir , except with explosions , but comes up completely snake-eyes .  it's just a pretend film noir , making it a big waste of time .  and for action buffs , the action scenes are pretty lame , with some really unrealistic-looking special effects ( a penthouse being blown off of a hotel looks like a piece of cardboard falling into a tub ) .  then there's the much-discussed sex scene between sly and stone , which are about as mispaired a couple as rachel and ross on " friends . "  their sex scene is more nauseating then sexy , because it shows us more of sly than stone .  now let's guess who we'd rather see naked , okay ?  stone's small but perky breasts , which we've seen more times than harvey keitel's dick , or stallone's veiny ass , which isn't usually shown for a very good reason ?  i know i can't really judge it as a flaw of the film , but come on .  the worst flaw of the film is this : it's boring .  i mean , i was on caffeine when watching it , but my friend fell asleep only to be woken up by james woods ranting .  but a good movie does not james woods going nuts make .  if you're in for some fun action , rent sly's earlier " demolition man , " which sucks too , but in a much more entertaining fashion .  skip this dull film , unless you want to see woods , or make fun of steiger's accent , or see stone's breasts again . 
pos@ plot : good ol' texan kid suddenly gets to play first-string quarterback on his high school team's football team , in a town where football is considered religion .  the coach is just about the biggest a-hole you'd ever want to meet , who will do practically anything to win .  the good ol' texan boy does not approve of said man's methods .  critique : a fun football movie .  this film was obviously geared towards the teen market , with mtv behind its production , a big tv star actor in the lead role , rockin' hip music galore , and plenty of t&a .  having said that , i enjoyed the look and feel of the movie , thought james van der beek gave a solid performance , loved the slick sounds , and yup , loved that t&a !  i actually thought this was a comedy going in , but overall , it plays more towards the dramatic , than a comedy .  i also enjoyed jon voight's performance as the stubborn dick coach , as well as many of the other character players on the team .  this is not a classic film by any stretch of the imagination , but it might teach some kids the hard lessons behind the " fun " game of football , or just allow them to have a good time for about an hour and forty-five minutes in the movie theatre ( or in the comfort of their own home , depending on where you watch this stuff . )  all in all , i would definitely watch this movie if you like football , play football or want your kid to succeed in high school football .  you could also watch it if you like teen flicks with a lot of cute guys and girls running around doing their stuff .  and did i mention the t&a ?   : )  little known facts about this film and its stars : james van der beek actually started acting after a concussion stopped him from playing football in real life .  he is the oldest of three children , and his father is a cellular phone salesman while his mom runs a gymnastics studio .  he's born in connecticut and received $200 , 000 for his role in this film .  actor scott caan , who plays football player " tweeder " in this film , is the son of famed actor james caan in real life .  that's right , he's sonny's son !  actress amy smart , who plays van der beek's girlfriend in this movie , also played the main star's girl in the 1999 film outside providence ( 6 . 5/10 ) .  screenwriter w . peter iliff also had a part in writing the screenplays for the 1992 harrison ford film , patriot games , and the keanu reeves surfing flick , point break .  director brian robbins might be best remembered as the " cool dude " from the tv series " head of the class " .  his name was eric mandrian and he generally wore a long , black trench coat on the show .  the book mox ( james van der beek ) is reading on the sidelines in this movie , hidden inside the team's playbook , is " slaughterhouse-five " by kurt vonnegut , jr . the high school fight song played at the pep rally is the texas a&m war hymn . 
neg@ after 1993's " falling down , " i hoped that joel schumacher would mature into a great director .  since then he has offered us two so-so adaptations of john grisham novels ( " the client " and " a time to kill " ) and two batman movies that lowered the standards of that franchise .  although these disappointments dampened my enthusiasm for schumacher's potential , the publicity for his latest release , " 8mm , " raised new hope .  it promised to be something unusual .  it wasn't .  the plot goes like this : tom welles ( nicolas cage ) is a private eye who is hired by a wealthy woman , allegorically named mrs . christian ( myra carter ) , to investigate an 8mm movie found among her late husband's belongings .  the movie appears to be a snuff film in which a teenage girl is raped and murdered by a man in a leather mask ( who reminds me of bane in schumacher's " batman & robin " ) .  because murders can be realistically simulated in movies , mrs . christian wants tom to discover if the girl is alive or dead .  by combing through missing persons reports , tom finds the girl's name and tracks her to los angeles .  with the aid of max california ( joaquin phoenix ) , a video store clerk ( and another symbolic name ) , tom wanders through the underworld of pornography in search of snuff .  the plot bears an obvious resemblance to paul schrader's " hardcore , " in which a father goes deeper and deeper into the industries of porn and sex to find his missing daughter .  both films are modeled on dante's " the inferno , " of course ; " 8mm " makes that connection overly obvious by casting max as virgil and having him constantly tell tom that they were heading toward a meeting with the devil .   " hardcore " is a much more subtle and meaningful film .   " 8mm " had a lot of promise .  in its better moments it's an examination of violence as entertainment and of the beast within even a nice guy like tom .  one moment of the first sort : when we first meet max he's reading truman capote's " in cold blood " underneath the cover of a porn novel .   " in cold blood " was the father of the true-crime genre , which is the literary equivalent of snuff films .  max promises that we will see examples of the second theme when he tells tom , " dance with the devil and the devil don't change ; the devil changes you . "  tom does change-i'll let you discover the specifics for yourself-but not permanently .  schumacher and screenwriter andrew kevin walker didn't have the guts to take tom so far down the dark tunnel that he couldn't come back .   ( walker's " seven " did a much better job on that theme by refusing to compromise ) .  cage tries hard to pull it off , but the script doesn't give him enough to work with .  phoenix walks away with the movie-he's smart , charming , and funny .  other cast members include " fargo " 's peter stormare camping it up as porn auteur dino velvet and " the sopranos " 's james gandolfini as a soulless porn merchant who pushes tom too far .  in the last analysis , since " 8mm " falls short of its pretensions and its promise , its just another private eye story in the raymond chandler/ross macdonald tradition of having the detective uncover the depravity behind the glossy facade of wealth and privilege .  however , unlike other predictable fare in the genre-last year's " twilight , " for example- " 8mm " is especially disappointing because it could have been much more than it is . 
pos@ the question isn't why has grease been reissued .  the answer to that one is easy : to celebrate the movie's 20th anniversary and to make more bucks for paramount's coffers because john travolta is once again a hot commodity .  no , the question that ought to be asked is : should grease be reissued ?  the answer is not an easy one .  grease is a fun movie , an entertaining fantasy of the '50s , embodying all the cliches of that era .  the music is lively and the dance numbers , choreographed by patricia birch , are energetic and high-spirited .  travolta was at his pinnacle as a sexual icon , cool , but non-threatening .  but grease didn't break any new cinematic ground .  it was not a milestone in movie history such as citizen kane or easy rider .  what grease is - or has become - is the highest-grossing musical in film history .  ok , let's not be a spoilsport .  grease is a fun and entertaining movie , even though it stretches credulity to see such performers as travolta , olivia newton-john , taxi's jeff conaway and the multi-talented stockard channing try to act like high schoolers .  it's nostalgic to recall how good a dancer travolta was , and it's sad to think of what could have been had not a few missteps sidetracked his career .  he could have become a musical comedy star in the tradition of gene kelly .  cinematically , the musical comedy has basically gone the way of the dinosaur .  between grease and 1996's evita . , you can probably count the number of movie musicals on one hand .  two reasons have contributed to the demise of the genre : the first is that movie audiences have become more sophisticated , no , make that cynical and jaded .  today , if a character began to dance and sing with no orchestra in sight , he or she would probably be hooted off the screen .  today's audiences lack the innocence , that belief in movie magic that is required for a musical to succeed .  secondly , a lack of talent .  performers with the charisma , the style , the larger-than-life panache of fred astaire , gene kelly , ginger rogers and judy garland are gone .  most singers and dancers remain on the stage , and those who do succeed in movies usually wind up in serious dramatic parts .  a good example is gregory hines , one of the greatest dancers in the world .  he danced a bit in the cotton club , tap and white nights , but those were essentially dramatic vehicles .  so , perhaps the reissue of grease can serve a purpose .  if audiences show enough interest , meaning if the re-release earns the studio enough revenue , it may spark a revival in movie musicals .  perhaps not original musicals such as singin' in the rain , an american in paris or seven brides for seven brothers , but for broadway properties that have been in the planning stages for film adaptations for several years .  at one time or another , according to the industry rumor mill , hollywood has been set to create an animated version of andrew lloyd webber's cats , a filming of the popular phantom of the opera as well as les miserables and chicago , the latter reportedly to star madonna .  so , let this grease be the forerunner of an armada of movie musicals .  let grease be the word that sparks this revival . 
neg@ that's exactly how long the movie felt to me .  there weren't even nine laughs in nine months .  it's a terrible mess of a movie starring a terrible mess of a man , mr . hugh grant , a huge dork .  it's not the whole oral-sex/prostitution thing ( referring to grant , not me ) that bugs me , it's the fact that grant is annoying .  not just adam sandler-annoying , we're talking jim carrey-annoying .  since when do eye flutters and nervous smiles pass for acting ?  but , on the other hand , since when do really bad slapstick ( a fistfight in the delivery room culminating in grant's head in joan cusack's lap--a scene he paid $60 to have included in the movie ) and obscene double entendres ( robin williams , the obstetrician , tells grant's pregnant girlfriend she has " a big pussy , " referring of course to the size of the cat hairs on her coat , but nonetheless , grant paid $60 to have the exchange included in the movie ) pass for comedy ?  nine months is a predictable cookie-cutter movie with no originality in humor or plot .  hugh grant plays a successful child psychiatrist .  why a child psychologist ?  so the scriptwriters could inject the following unfunny exchange :  kid : my dad's an asshole .  grant ( flutters eyelashes , offers a nervous smile , then responds in his annoying english accent and i-think-i-actually-have- talent attitude ) : could you possibly elaborate on that ?  kid : my dad's a _huge_ asshole .  more like a hugh asshole , but that's beside the point , which is : nine months includes too many needlessly stupid jokes that get laughs from the ten year olds in the audience while everyone else shakes his or her head in disbelief .  so , anyway , grant finds out his girlfriend is pregnant and does his usual reaction ( fluttered eyelashes , nervous smiles ) .  this paves the way for every possible pregnancy/child birth gag in the book , especially since grant's equally annoying friend's wife is also pregnant .  the annoying friend is played by tom arnold , who provides most of the cacophonous slapstick , none of which is funny , such as a scene where arnold beats up a costumed " arnie the dinosaur " ( you draw your own parallels on that one ) in a toy store .  the only interesting character in the movie is played by jeff goldblum , who should have hid himself away somewhere after the dreadful hideaway , as an artist with a fear of ( and simultaneous longing for ) commitment .  not even robin williams , who plays a russian doctor who has recently decided to switch from veterinary medicine to obstetrics , has much humor .  his is a one-joke character-- the old foreign-guy-who-mispronounces-english stereotype ( did someone say yakov smirnov ?  that's my favorite vodka , by the way ) , hence the line " now it's time to take a look at your volvo , " another nasty but unamusing joke , except this one goes right over the ten year olds' heads , while the adults simultaneously groan .  nine months is a complete failure , low on laughs and intelligence and high on loud , unfunny slapstick , failed jokes and other uninspired lunacy .  hugh grant's sunset boulevard arrest ( please , no caught-with-his-pants-down jokes ) may bring more people into the theaters , but they certainly won't leave with a smile on their faces , not after 90 minutes of grant's nervous smiles .  everything in the movie is so forced , so unauthentic that anyone with an i . q .  over 80 ( sorry , hugh ) will know they wasted their money on an unfulfilled desire .  but at least they didn't spend 60 bucks for it . 
pos@ martin scorsese's films used to intimidate me .  because of his reputation , i felt obligated to appreciate them as deep film art rather than as great flicks .  as much as i enjoyed them , i usually felt like i missed something .  i learned from scorsese's casino that whatever techniques he uses are merely there to enhance the story .  no mystical interpretation is required to appreciate his movies .  for example , in casino he uses subtitles when robert deniro and joe pesci are using code words with each other .  there was no meaning more exotic than that subtitles were the most succinct way for him to tell the audience what was really going on .  or toward the end , when he uses three quick dissolves to compress a scene of a car backing away from a building .  again , the simple , mundane explanation is that it helped the pacing .  i don't mean to say that his techniques are not creative or good-looking .  but he simply uses the best tool for the job .  it shouldn't have surprised me , then , that kundun , a film about a mystical religion , actually turned out to be quite straightforward .  the movie follows the life of the 14th dalai lama , the spiritual and political leader of tibet .  the movie's title is another name for the dalai lama which means " ocean of wisdom . "  his story is told in strict chronological order and there are only a few cinematic visions to embellish the literal story .   ( one of which makes an interesting statement : pay attention to the film's opening shot and watch where it is repeated . )  we first glimpse the dalai lama when he is two years old .  his curiosity and self-assuredness capture the attention of a monk wandering in search of the new lama .  a test is arranged to see if this boy really is the reincarnation of the 13 dalai lamas who have gone before .  several items belonging to the previous dalai lama are laid before the boy alongside some other items .  the child is asked if he recognizes any of the items as his own .  the boy picks correctly , proving that he is the new , and the old , dalai lama .  scorsese and long-time editor thelma schoonmaker were kind enough to allow the possibility that the child was taking his cues from the monk .  before selecting an item , he would look at the monk , perhaps for some sort of confirmation .  sometimes he picked right the first time , and sometimes he made a second choice .  either way , whether through reincarnation or quick human perception , the tibetans were assured of choosing a boy who could be a wise , perceptive leader .  >from this point on , the boy is raised as the reincarnation of the lama's spirit and the future leader of a nation .  it is a great weight to put on the mind of a child .  in the u . s . it might be grounds for a call to social services .  but the young lama accepts his destiny without any apparent emotional damage .  neither the great power nor the awesome responsibility keeps him from becoming a genuinely likeable , well-rounded person .  certain patterns take shape over the years .  for example , the dalai lama is fascinated by technology .  radios , clocks , and telescopes are some of his favorite toys .  when he is old enough to accept his leadership , he makes plans to modernize isolated tibet .  he also has a soft spot for creatures who are suffering or in pain , including herd animals .  it's nearly a running gag that he will buy sheep to keep them from being herded to slaughter .  but the most ominous constant throughout his life is the presence and threat of tibet's gigantic neighbor , china .  tibet and its leaders prove correct in fearing china , as , first the propaganda , then the political pressure , and finally the armies , come across their common border .  the chinese invasion is so successful that the lama's life is in danger if he stays .  the movie ends when , after much agonizing , the dalai lama leaves tibet for india .  the story doesn't lead up to a cinematic climax as strongly as most feature films do .  it just doesn't fit that mold .  if it were forced into such a shape it would have been a completely different movie ( perhaps more like seven years in tibet , which is good in its own right ) .  the pacing of kundun is more calm and level than that .  the structure of the film is made to fit the characters and events , not vice-versa .  perhaps because the pace is slower , we have more time to notice the beautiful art , vestments , and architecture of tibet .  a mandala , ( tibetan sand painting ) with beautiful , vibrant colors is shown throughout the movie .  the robes and hats of state are bright red and gold .  the bricks are a rich reddish brown , not unlike the skin tone of the tibetans .  even the touchstone pictures logo before the movie ( which is usually light blue ) is the red and gold of tibet .  philip glass composed the music for kundun , and he was the perfect choice .  for those who don't know of glass , his music is like a tibetan mandala .  his building blocks are lots of small notes , tiny grains of music , which are first grouped , then repeated in patterns .  these patterns create interesting textures which are themselves part of a larger composition .  people won't be flocking to kundun for it's great ending , or talking about its outstanding plot , but it does have a lot to offer : an interesting lifetime , exotic sights , rich cinematography , and innovative music .  it gives interesting insight into tibetan buddhism and takes a warm look at the dalai lama as a person .  on top of it all is the cinematic mastery of martin scorsese , who gives the film a strong , beautiful , consistent look . 
neg@ adam sandler turns up the charm in his latest romantic comedy , the wedding singer .  unfortunately , that also has the effect of softening his edge .  he's nowhere near his peak of happy gilmore , not that it was much of one .  he's certainly not helped here by a rather frail plot .  the year is 1985 , letting the whole film obsess with 80s nostalgia .  adam sandler is nice guy robbie , the titular wedding singer , who entertains at the local reception hall by belting out his interpretations of classic 80s hits .  robbie's life is thrown into turmoil when his fiancee , linda ( angela featherstone ) , leaves him at the altar .  however , things are looking up when he meets julia ( drew barrymore ) , a waitress at the hall .  she's the perfect woman , but for one small flaw : she's engaged to be married to a slick junk bond king , glenn ( matthew glave ) .  so , most of the film deals with the slow realization by robbie that he and julia are in love , and his attempts to stop the wedding .  as far as plots go , it's a pretty thin and tired one .  to fill the gaps , the wedding singer delivers heaping spoonfuls of 1980s nostalgia .  from boy george to michael jackson , from miami vice to dallas , from the first cds to the last rubik's cubes , this film revels in all the minutiae .  and then there's the music . . .  learning a lesson from the successful soundtracks to grosse pointe blank , and romy and michele's high school reunion , this film packs more 80s songs in the film than the running time will allow .  as a result , most songs get maybe a lyric or a half , but you can almost see the bright gleam in the record executives' eyes : the wedding singer vols .  2 , 3 , and 4 !  while the nonstop 80s riffs get incredibly tiring , at least they distract you from the plot .  at least last year's my best friend's wedding stirred up the standard " keep your true love from marrying someone else " plot by making the rival a nice person .  here , glenn is such a lowly rat of a man that you never see what julia saw in him .  barrymore , on the other hand , is simply charming as julia .  which leaves us with adam sandler .  he's at his best in the film when his nice guy persona fades a little ( such as when he has a breakdown on stage during a wedding reception ) .  when he's in full nice-guy mode , he's more pathetic than endearing .  the film boasts several cameos ( most notably by steve buscemi and jon lovitz ) .  but none of them work well at all .  buscemi's role as a drunken best man simply fails to be humorous .  lovitz , on the other hand , as a rival wedding singer , makes you long for his good old days on saturday night live , where he was actually funny .  the only cameo which has some appeal is a guest appearance by a classic 80s rocker during the film's finale ( surprisingly , one of the only plot-related scenes which actually works . )  adam sandler still has some work to do before he can become a dependable leading man .  while he attempts to change his image in the wedding singer , the end result is no net gain . 
pos@ if this keeps up , jane austen ( sense and sensibility , pride and prejudice ) may have to apply for posthumous membership to the screen writers guild .  yet another novel of hers has made the transition to the silver screen .  mansfield park is a turn of the century ( 18th century going on 19th ) story about love among the classes as well as an examination into proper society and family ties .  ten year old fanny price ( hannah taylor-gordon , jakob the liar ) , taken from her mother and father and the poverty in which they dwell , is sent to live with her aunt and the privileged class at mansfield park , under the stern patriarchal hand of her uncle , sir thomas bertram ( harold pinter , mojo )  spending her days reminded of her lower status , she also invents and writes fanciful stories during her private times .  fanny eventually grows to become a beautiful , intelligent , and engaging heroine ( quite unlike the original character which ms . austen originally penned in her novel . )  writer/director patricia rozema ( when night is falling ) is responsible for the textual changes .  from a purely dramatic perspective , the revision makes perfect sense and improves the film's audience appeal .  what ms . rozema has done is to infuse the main character with much of ms . austen's own personality by including excerpts from the author's journals , giving that dialogue to fanny .  the result is a central character that is immediately appealing .  as the grown fanny , australian actress frances o'connor ( all about adam ) does wonderfully textured work .  at times , ms . rozema has fanny address the camera directly to communicate many of the novel's more introspective observations .  this is a difficult device to work seamlessly into a period film and it is to ms . o'connor's credit that it works as well as it does .  the central theme which gives the story its legs in an old one . . .  whether it is better to marry for love or for social standing ?  fanny has fallen in love with her cousin edmund ( jonny lee miller , plunkett & macleane ) who appears fond of her as well .  his attentions are soon divided as the stylish and socially acceptable mary crawford ( embeth davidtz , bicentennial man ) enters the picture along with her equally acceptable brother henry ( alessandro nivola , inventing the abbotts ) who eventually sets his romantic sights upon fanny .  while mary and henry are evidently less than sincere in their affections , their presence does provide the movie and the main characters with the necessary conflict that keeps our interest until the film's appropriately austen-like ending .  other thematic devices include a awkwardly inserted reference to the source of the wealth of mansfield park . . .  the slave trade .  there is also a hint of both lesbianism and incest but neither is carried very far and is soon forgotten .  the motivation for marriage remains the primary thematic thrust .  fanny's cousin , maria bertram ( victoria hamilton , persuasion ) is an example of one making a poor match , marrying a well-to-do fool who is able to make her comfortable , but never happy .  fanny's own mother , trapped in her chosen life of squalor warns fanny by admitting that her situation is due to the fact that she " married for love . "  fanny , given those two terrible examples , and faced with the same choice is understandably indecisive as to which way to lean .  the spiritual answer , of course , lies in the middle of those two extremes .  marriage is not a cold , calculating decision based upon self-preservation .  neither is it a senseless decision made in the warm afterglow of a passionate embrace .  in the purest sense , marriage forms an insoluble union whereby two people agree to function as one .   " and said , for this cause shall a man leave father and mother , and shall cleave to his wife : and they twain shall be one flesh ? "  matthew 19 : 5 [kjv]  love and logic can be combined .  god's word contains both .  so does a marriage based upon his truth . 
neg@ the most depressing thing about the depressingly pedestrian james bond film " the world is not enough " is its final frame : white letters on a black background proclaiming " james bond will return . "  oh i certainly hope not .  with pierce brosnan in his third and reportedly last go-round as james bond 007 , " the world is not enough " is the best example to date that " 'enough " is enough .  in this , the 19th chapter in the seemingly-endless franchise featuring ian fleming's debonair british secret agent who likes his martinis--and his nemeses--shaken not stirred , the sub-inspired screenwriters have chosen to rehash all of the setups , stunts , and sexy encounters of the previous 18 bond flicks rather than coming up with anything the slightest bit original .  we've got previously-used speedboat chases , ski chases , and sticky situations aboard nuclear submarines .  we've got a couple of hot-to-trot babes without an ounce of acting ability between them .  we've got a post-cold war megalomaniac bent on world domination slash destruction ( here played by a skinheaded robert carlyle with mean , lean panache ) .  and , as has been the case since 1977's " the spy who loved me , " we've got a plot that has nothing whatsoever to do with anything conceived by mr . fleming .  we've also got a main title song by garbage to which , with very little effort , you can fit the lyrics to * both * songs from " tomorrow never dies . "  while originality was never the series' strong suit , the films were almost always fun , with at least some thought going into the nonstop stunts .  i can't think of one memorable set-piece in the entire--and very dull-- " the world is not enough . "  in addition , michael apted ( yes , the respected director of such films as " coal miner's daughter , " " nell , " and the " 28up " documentary series ) takes embarrassing advantage of the full range of bond clich ? s .  you get the " talking killer " plot device--you know the scenario : the bad guy has the good guy at his mercy yet waxes poetic just long enough to die of old age .  and you get a slew of high-priced assassins who can't hit a barn door at 20 paces : in the film's opening minutes ( of an endless 128 ) , bond chases a sultry sniper along the thames and the leather-clad lovely fails to hit bond's souped-up " fishing boat " with a bazooka when he pulls within a few feet of her .  later , she takes off in a hot air balloon with bond dangling from a guy rope beneath her but is still unable to take him out .  these reliable absurdities are more frustrating than usual since there are no distractions other than occasional ads for luxury automobiles , vodka , or credit cards .  in and among the rampant product placements , brosnan grapples with carlyle , " braveheart " 's sophie marceau ( as former kidnap victim slash heiress elektra king ; she's terrible ) , " wild things " ' denise richards ( as a nuclear physicist lord help me ; she's laughable ) , and judi dench as m . dame judi brings the only shred of dignity to a series that has long since jettisoned its self-respect ( about the time roger moore inherited bond's walther ppk ) .  brosnan goes through the motions with the grace and charm you'd expect of the former " remington steele " star , but even he has to be thinking there's more to life than an easy paycheck .  he's given plenty of wiseacre asides to deliver , but only one of them-- " i don't know any doctor jokes " --made me chuckle ( although " i thought christmas only comes once a year " is more in keeping with the series' penchant for grown-worthy puns ) . 
pos@ in december of 1996 , a little movie called " scream , " was released , became a box-office smash , and resurrected films targeted at teens .  first , it was teen slasher movies that were the big fad ( both " scream " movies , " i know what you did last summer , " " urban legend , " etc . ) , but just recently , the popularity has switched over to the teen comedy genre ( a 'la '80s john hughes ) , starting with last june's " can't hardly wait . "  it may be the first week of april in 1999 , but so far this year we have been given a movie aimed at the 25-and-under market almost every single week : " varsity blues , " " jawbreaker , " " cruel intentions , " " simply irresistible , " " the rage : carrie 2 , " and " the mod squad . "  coming april 9 are two more of this type : " never been kissed " and " go , " and on april 23 , we've got the teen satire " election " and the teen horror-comedy " idle hands . "  jeesh !  out of all of these moves , however , the one that is most similar to the latest incarnation , " 10 things i hate about you , " is this past january's mediocre , ho-hum " she's all that . "  although similar in plotting ( ok , darn near identical ) , " 10 things i hate about you , " a modern-day version of shakespeare's " the taming of the shrew " ( " she's all that " got its inspiration from " pygmalion " ) , is an infinitely superior film in every department , from the smart direction by first-time feature director gil junger to the charming and well-written screenplay by karen mccullah lutz and kirsten smith to the striking ensemble cast , who give the best group of performances in a teen comedy since 1985's " the breakfast club . "  and to top it all off , in the inevitable climax set at the prom , at least we didn't have to once again suffer through a goofy , inappropriate dance sequence ( who could forget , or want to remember , for that matter , this ludicrous development in " she's all that ? " ) .  the day wide-eyed , shy new student cameron james ( joseph gordon-levitt ) starts school at seattle-based padua high , he is swept away at the sight of the beautiful and popular sophomore , bianca stratford ( larisa oleynik ) .  although he doesn't know french , he purposefully learns some of it just so he can tutor her , but finds that her paranoid gynecologist father ( larry miller ) won't allow her to date until her bitter , unconventional older sister , kat ( julia stiles ) , a senior , decides to .  kat , of course , has sworn off the likes of boys , but cameron sets out to find someone that will be the perfect match for her , which is exactly what he finds in the form of the rebellious patrick verona ( heath ledger ) .  complicating matters , cameron's dorky friend , michael ( david krumholtz ) , decides to use a wealthy jock , joey ( andrew keegan ) , who also has his sights set on bianca , as a pawn so that he will pay patrick to get kat to go out with him , and then cameron hopes to steal bianca away from joey .  as you can see , " 10 things i hate about you " includes a huge number of characters , some of which i haven't even mentioned , such as kat's shakespeare-obsessed friend , mandella ( susan may pratt ) and bianca's materialistic comrade , chastity ( gabrielle union ) .  at a short , but well-used running time of 98 minutes , all of the characters are perfectly handled , satisfyingly developed , and , for the most part , are not treated as caricatures ( another flaw of " she's all that , " where the bad guys ( and gals ) ran around constantly saying , " you're vapor " ) .  since i could sympathize with the realistic depictions of the central characters , and since many of the comedic and dramatic scenes were surprisingly effective , i got completely caught up in all of the relationships and was thoroughly entertained .  aside from a good screenplay , it's the performances that can make or break a movie , and director junger has really hit the jackpot .  aside from joseph gordon-levitt ( " 3rd rock from the sun " ) , who gives his strongest performance to date here , none of the actors are that well-known , but it is this aspect that brings a particular freshness to the proceedings .  as the main character of kat , julia stiles ( last seen in the miniseries " the '60s " ) is marvelous and always believable , and certainly has a bright future ahead of her .  even though it is her role that is initially the most difficult and hard-edged , it was easy to identify with kat's way of thinking ( she is against the silly tradition of the prom and loves reading sylvia plath ) , and i completely admired her individuality .  no one , i think , could have portrayed her as perfectly as stiles does .  heath ledger , as the infamous bad-boy of the town , injects much life into patrick , and has a lot of chemistry with stiles .  one other actor of note is larisa oleynik who , with the help of screenwriters lutz and smith , is able to turn bianca into a person with multi-dimensions , even though she is accurately self-centered at the on-set .  in one truthful scene , cameron angrily asks her if she has always been so selfish , and bianca grudgingly realizes that yes , she has .  one off-beat element of the film , and a source of some hearty laughs , is the way that the school's staff act , which is strikingly unformal .  allison janney , as the guidance counselor ms . perky , who is writing a trashy harlequin romance novel , is comic dynamite , as is daryl " chill " mitchell as the english teacher , who reads shakespeare to the class in rap and , at one point , sends kat to the office because , for once , she actually thinks one of his assignments is really good .  although there are a few cheap laughs that are thrown into the film near the beginning , most of it actually works , especially in the humorous and witty dialogue exchanges and quirks between the characters .  in one very funny scene , chastity asks , " i know people can be overwhelmed , and they can be underwhelmed , but can people just be . . . whelmed ? "  at another point , bianca and kat's father ( a stand-out larry miller ) , who is constantly terrified that his daughters are going to get pregnant , only allows bianca to go to the prom on one occasion : before she leaves , she has to put on the heavy fat suit he has so she will get an idea of what it's like to be pregnant .   " 10 things i hate about you " once and for all proves that there is still life in the teen comedy genre , and this movie is probably more reminiscent of the great john hughes than any other film of the '90s .  it also helps that the movie has a perfectly-assembled soundtrack , mixing indie-rock with new wave '80s songs ( and with , thank goodness , no rap ) .  by the film's end , it actually had me rooting for certain characters to get together , and i was also quite pleased with how everything was wrapped up , especially in the final scenes involving kat and bianca , kat and her father , and a flawlessly-acted and moving sequence in which kat gets up to read the poem she has written for her english class ( this is where the title comes from ) .  luckily , i doubt i would be able to find ten things i hate about " 10 things i hate about you , " but the positive aspects of the film far out-number ten . 
neg@ i was recently told that in china their had been strong protests against the release of red corner  and this is apparently because of the way it shows the injustice of many chinese laws .  but if you ask me , the real truth of the matter is that the chinese critics association were determined not to punish the population into viewing richard gere running across rooftops in search for a fellow american .  or more the point , anyone that allows him to bask in his own less-than-subtle presence .  this is not an insult to gere , as i consider him to be a rather talented actor  but more the choice of character and responsibility of his role .  if a film is solely about one person , the main actor must give a faultless performance in order for it to really work .  although geres performance is in no way poorly acted , it is far from perfect  and i look forward to seeing him star with other talented actors that can reduce the need for him to carry a film by himself .  this is where he truly belongs , and if you are reluctant to believe me than look no further that primal fear ( with the sensational edward norton ) , the jackal ( with bruce willis ) and pretty woman ( with the delightful julia roberts ) .  in red corner gere plays classy lawyer jack moore , who is guilty of the same personality traits as his character martin vail in primal fear  bold and up front , who thinks he is three steps ahead of everybody else but is actually two steps behind .  it is with invulnerability of both mental and physical kind that the character of moore is portrayed , which left me barracking for the chinese to haul his sorry ass into jail .  it doesnt take long from the films beginning for jack moores charm to work on a pretty chinese lady , and in no time they are in bed together in a hotel room  drunk and cheerful .  yet instead of a hangover , poor jack finds himself covered in blood and the chinese chick dead on a couch .  he is arrested and hauled into a chinese prison .  his cell , food and rights  all terrible .  now trapped in a foreign land without adequate aid from the american embassy , lawyer shen yuelin ( bai ling ) defends his case by initially pleading guilty to the charge of murder .  jack and shen argue about their countries different laws ; shen stating that they will shoot you in the back and charge the cost of the bullet to your family .   as the plot thickens , scenes get progressively more ridiculous  ranging from richard gere running over rooftops in search of the us embassy to a scooby doo ending where the least expected but-you-knew-along criminal is discovered .  red corner is one of those films where you sneer , laugh or vomit youre way through all of its minutes .  what should have been a politically taunt thriller is little more than a pointless expedition to see how stressed out richard gere can act .  this is not to say that the film does not have its moments  there are some tense court room scenes that are shrewdly created  telling the tale of foreign injustice and government corruption .  but what they amount to spoils the effect of having them in the first place  perhaps this is why red corner is so frustrating to watch .  if you look at the films overall concept fairly broadly , the basic idea is quite tangible .  it is upon the films execution where the diminutive plot twists and developments fail to impress or innovate - the evidence that goes missing , the high powered officials shielding the truth and intolerable love angles have all been done so many times before .  if that wasnt bad enough , red corners dialogue is purely laughable on many occasions .  shen yuelin attempts to gain sympathy by reciting renaissance of a destitute relationship with her deceased father , whilst jack moore is eager to talk about chinese musical instruments when he could have been working on a plan to free himself .  taking itself far too seriously , red corner is not half the film it intends to be .  although it would have benefited from the help of a more valuable supporting cast , the films main fault is in the bizarre ( and often out of place ) way of unfolding a story which isnt that meritorious anyway .  whilst richard gere still proves that has what it takes to be known as a decent actor , i would think twice before going to see him attempt to manage such a serious yet hollow drama again .  martin vailwhere are you ? 
pos@ imagine this scenario : you and any of your family members are scudding through one of those long , excruciating cross-country car trips , far from the city and into the deserted rural routes .  so far , the trip is idyllic when , abruptly , your car malfunctions and you are stranded in the middle of nowhere .  it is not an easy situation , but a perfectly plausible one , the panorama in which breakdown musters it's throbbing suspense and skillfully executed tautness .  it is not easy to cobble a distinct and gripping thriller nowadays , but breakdown doesn't bungle into rudimentary plot holes or cliches and it derives a masterful , titillating climax that by it's finale , engrosses a viewer with total absorption .  the plot is somewhat reminiscent of 1988's the vanishing .  kurt russell and kathleen quinlan respectively play jeff and amy taylor , a massachusetts couple en route to california for a brand new job .  when they stop for gas somewhere in the arid southwest , jeff is confronted by a pugnacious driver , who later , will be an important player in the plot department .  minutes later after that , their brand new , strikingly red , jeep grand cherokee unexpectedly stops .  jeff cannot detect the car's problem , so he allows amy to take a ride with red ( j .  t walsh ) , a heedful truck driver who will convey her to the nearest town , where jeff will meet her at a local diner .  it is facile for the film to turn into a pseudo-suspenser , but instead it opts for maximum fervor .  jeff manages to re-start the car himself , but when he arrives at the diner , she is nowhere in sight .  disconcerted , the coffee shop's bartender informs jeff where to search for his wife , a town about twenty miles from here .  there , trouble arises .  and i shall not reveal anything else , since that would be spoiling the fun of what's head .  there are many involving , tight scenes in breakdown but the final climactic period which includes a magnificent chase with three cars and a huge truck , will have you feeling as if your legs are made out of pure foam .  it is a pleasure to be part of a classic confrontation of good vs evil , and rooting for the good guys , in this case jeff .  kurt russell is one of the few top-notch hollywood actors which doesn't overblow his acting , and gradually gains reliance on his role as it progresses .  so you can assume his alteration in breakdown is letter-perfect .  suffice it is to say he undergoes a transformation , from a jolly man , to a guy frantically pursuing a loved one .  not many well-paid actors can deliver these type of performances , but russell is one of them .  as an everyday man , he pulls it off extremely convincingly , what also surprised me more was his rigorous physicality , which he effectively practices almost all throughout the films 93 minutes .  although the film is blotted with a couple of portentous action sequences ( very well done ) yet the tightness is generated by the subtle circumstances this man is presented with .  faced with an enigma about his wife's whereabouts , the movie succeeds by conveying us in realistic territory with veritable characters , including the cryptic villains , who in essence , make the movie what it is .  what's most impressive however , is the feature debut by writer/director jonathan mostow .  mostow , hitherto directed the showtime thriller flight of a black angle , alleviates the contrivances and generics of the script by gingerly pursuing the trajectory of the plot , efficiently letting the tone and the mood of the story generate that nail-biting suspense sought for in a well- made affair .  contrary to most american thrillers , he doesn't rely on visual flair , but on aesthetics and substance .  after breakdown , he should gain vast notoriety .  the villains in the movie aren't your routine out-of-this-world idiosyncratic psychos that are harming for no particular objective .  the baddies in breakdown , all well acted , are normal , seemingly inoffensive townspeople who beneath their trustworthy layer , conduct an amoral business of corruption and murder .  the movie smartly portrays these men as loathsome rednecks , and , of all things in the world , it is becoming rather easy to root for villains ( jon voight in anaconda ) in today's movies .  worth a special mentioning is j . t walsh ( who previously worked with kurt russell in executive decision ) as the leader of the gang , he renders a deliciously wicked performance , temporarily stepping out of the minor roles he is known for .  alfred hitchcock used suspense--and action-- not only to stimulate , but as a way of aiding his audience's fascination in his stories , which were slowly realizing man's biggest fears .  breakdown yields exactly that .  it magnificently taps into the psyche of an ordinary man , acting like an ordinary man , looking like an ordinary and some sort of superhero .  despite one or two iffy moments even hitchcock , i think , would approve of breakdown .   ( 1 : 33 ) 
neg@ tim robbins and martin lawernce team up in this road movie comedy .  robbins plays an exec who discovers his wife having sex with his boss .  he goes into depression , and drives around his neighbourhood until he arrives inside the usual 'ghetto' side of every american city .  there , lawernce attempts to steal his car , but to no avail , and is dragged along with robbin's on a trip to arizona .  there , they hold up a store , are mistaken for two other robbers ( just like in my cousin vinny ) and are chased by the police , and the other robbers .  of course , there's gags along the way , usually from lawernce .  although the film is midly funny , and quite watchable , there's something so horribly familiar about it all .  this film should really be called beverly hills midnight run there's lawernce with his wisecracking and heavy profanity , just like eddie murphy in beverly hills cop , and pratically the same idea as midnight run .  it's full of all the road movie cliches , and even has a 'comedy' car chase , which just seemed so eighties .  even the credit sequence seemed to be out of a steve martin , or chevy chase , eighties comedy .  there also isn't much chemistry between robbins and lawernce .  in planes , trains and automobiles , there was real chemistry between steve martin and john candy .  in nothing to lose , there is hardly chemistry at all .  towards the end the chemistry seems to work , but for the bulk of the film , there is hardly any ,  the director directs the film in a workman like fashion , but gets the jokes across .  and although there is no chemistry between the two leads , they give good performances on their own .  lawerence gives a good eddie murphy performance , and robbin's is alright aswell .  however , robbin's performance is nowhere near as good as the characters he played in jacob's ladder , and the player .  in fact , if you want to see robbin's do comedy much better than in nothing to lose , i suggest you rent out the hudsucker proxy , where he is much funnier .  nothing to lose does have some funny moments in it , however .  the humour isn't particulary sophisticated , but if you enojyed dumb & dumber , you might enjoy this .  the characters in arizona are funny , and there's also a good scene where robbin's asks a shopkeeper which 'threatening approach' was better , lawerences ( which consisted of lawerence threatening to shoot the shopkeeper's ass , and swearing a lot ) , or himselfs , ( which was speaking in a deep , scary voice ) but the gags are predictable , the lack of chemistry infurating , and the ending too far-fetched and 'perfect'  nothing to lose then , is robbin's first 'bad' movie ( and hopefully his last ) , and suggests that odereick should twice before making another film .  he nearly ruined carrey's career with ace ventura : when nature calls , let's hope he hasn't ruined robbin's ( or even lawerence's ) with nothing to lose . 
pos@  " it's not good to know too much about someone , charlie , " charles warns his niece , charlie ( margaret welsh ) , with a devilish grin .  charlie is infatuated with her namesake uncle , her " soul mate " as she calls him since her mother gave her his name .  there's a lot to know about charles , not the least of which is that he strangled 3 widows back east .  mark harmon , who looks like anything but a killer but specializes in playing them , plays charles , the merry widow murderer in the 1991 hallmark hall of fame remake of the 1943 hitchcock film , shadow of a doubt .  and to avoid any questions about his guilt , we see charles in action in the opening scene with his last victim .  the story takes place in the early 1950s in the small town of petaluma , california , where charles heads to avoid the police .  john gay's script uses most of the original screenplay by sally benson , alma reville , and thornton wilder .  karen arthur's direction is certainly no match for the great master , but on an absolute scale , the movie maintains a high level of suspense .  when supercilious and deceitful charles comes to pay a visit of indeterminate length with his sister and her family in petaluma , they don't know about his nefarious activities .  he showers them with elaborate gifts to buy the love they had already given him anyway .  two mysterious and exceedingly clean-cut writers for a magazine show up to take pictures of the family for a spread on the " average american family , " but their interest is focused on uncle charles , especially on taking his picture and learning about his background .  charlie , who first welcomed her uncle's visit , begins to feel more and more uncomfortable with him and suspicious of the disingenuous magazine reporters .  the picture advances with a delicate power using small details such as the newspaper article that the uncle tries secretly to remove and that charlie discovers .  the beauty of the story is the pas de deux between uncle and niece as they try to out psych each other .  she wants him to leave , and he doesn't want to go , what with a local , rich widow as a prospective victim .  will charles kill charlie first , or will she get him out of town .  harmon is wonderfully creepy and smug , and welsh is tough but trapped .  with a deft touch the director sets up each scene , several with thunderstorms , and tom neuwirth's sepia-toned cinematography makes the movie feel as if it were filmed in the 50s .  my only quibble is the director's awkward staging of the final scene on the train .  is hitchcock's version better ?  of course .  is this one worth watching as well ?  actually , yes .  shadow of a doubt runs 1 : 40 .  it is not rated but would be pg for adult themes and would be fine for kids around nine and up . 
neg@ if only austin powers : the spy who shagged me had been just half as original , zany , silly and totally enjoyable as its predecessor , it would have easily been one of this summer's biggest pleasures .  if only .  in fact , the spy who shagged me is the exact opposite of the original ; instead of refreshing the audience with one clever parody after another , the filmmakers bombard us with used-up , tired jokes taken directly from the first one .  take the scene where austin powers ( again played by mike myers , but with only a fraction of the giddy enthusiasm he displayed previously ) confronts a henchmen on the side of a cliff .  after being pushed off the ravine , the bad guy is of course assumed dead .  but suddenly , we hear a pleading voice coming from down below ; he's only injured .  a similar scene played very well in the original international man of mystery , but here i was insulted by it .  did the filmmakers really believe the audience would laugh at a rip-off ?  apparently i overestimated the intelligence of the average movie-goer , considering that the film has pulled in over $200 million in domestic theatrical grosses alone .  do i hear the sound of a franchise heading our way ?  having said that , though , i still cannot deny the film its merits .  the basic plot was delightfully silly enough to sustain my interest somewhat ; dr . evil ( mike myers , in the second of his three roles ) , having constructed a time machine , goes back to the year 1969 in an attempt to snatch austin power's " mojo " ( don't you just love that word ? )  whilst he is cryogenically frozen .  when austin gets wind of this ( after a great intro explaining the absence of elizabeth hurley's vanessa kensington ) , he too travels back in time to re-claim his sexual drive , accompanied by the hot-to-trot felicity shagwell , played by heather graham .  this sounds stupid , i know , but in the movie it starts to make some kind of weird , off-the-wall sense , and it worked for me .  then there's mini-me ( verne troyer ) , a . . .  petite clone of myer's dr . evil , exactly 1/8 in size .  troyer's persona alone gains the film an extra half-star , contributing to one particularly hilarious scene where he attempts to nibble on his own mini-mr .  bigglesworth .  just try to ignore the fact that , at 2'8'' , he would make dr . evil's height rise to just over 21 feet .  no matter .  however , there are only about four hearty laughs throughout the entire hour and a half ( the most notable being the now infamous tent scene ) , and that just isn't enough to warrant even a minor recommendation .  if there is in fact an " austin powers 3 " , they should just kill off secret agent powers and put the emphasis on dr . evil and mini-me .  unconventional , yes , but there's no denying that it'd make for a better movie . 
pos@ errol morris , critically acclaimed director of the 1997 documentary fast , cheap and out of control , vaults to new heights with mr .  death .  this film , an examination of the life and work of controversial execution equipment designer and revisionist historian fred a . leuchter , jr . , is sure to draw audiences out of their malaise , stunning even the more jaded minds among us .  don't let the film's cheesy dissuade you .  following this sideshow of horror-lab special effects we are plunged quickly into a non-stop exploration of the weirdness that is leuchter's life and mind .  morris follows the trail of leuchter's madness with appalling lucidity , revealing in a surprising and frightening way what most of us could have guessed to begin with : this leuchter guy is seriously messed up .  virtually raised within the american penal system by a father who worked within prison walls , leuchter seems to have come somewhat naturally into his profession ; designing and maintaining execution equipment for state penitentiaries , in spite of his lack of credentials .  after a moderately successful career making electric chairs and designing gas chambers and gallows , leuchter came to the attention of neo-nazi and revisionist historian ernst zundel , who was facing criminal charges in germany for publishing his `theory' that the holocaust never happened .  morris's interviews are surprisingly congenial , drawing the subjects into a carefree banter that gives them more than enough rope with which to hang themselves .  zundel speaks to the camera as though it were his mensch .  leuchter seems completely at ease , sometimes jovial .  part of this effect may be due to morris's new interviewing machine , called the interrotron , which is responsible for creating eye contact between the subject and the interviewer .  this was the first time morris had used the device , and the results are startling .  combine the irony of these interviews with leuchter's reenactments and reels of creepy stock footage of his trip to auschwitz and birkenau , not to mention a haunting clip of thomas edison electrocuting an elephant , and you've got one compelling and disturbing documentary .  while this film isn't for the feeble-minded or weak-hearted , it is a valuable addition to the cultural landscape .  aside from a few dragging minutes toward the end of the piece , morris has given us a fresh look at a dismal subject and i , for one , feel bettered by the experience . 
neg@ capsule : one of the ten worst movies ever made .  christopher lambert vs . evil ninjas in modern-day japan . . .  and nobody wins .  the hunted is such a bad movie , so completely inept and so totally brain-damaged that i could almost feel affection for it .  i could see myself showing this movie to friends and getting a good jolly guffaw out of it , if it weren't also insanely xenophobic and insulting .  christopher lambert plays a computer-parts salesman who's on business in japan .  he meets a slinky young woman ( joan chen ) and has a torrid night of lovemaking with her -- and then manages to witness her death at the hands of an evil ninja clan and their leader ( john lone ) .  apparently they had some unfinished business that could only be concluded with her getting slaughtered .  since lambert is a witness , he's of course the next one to die .  let's stop and think about this for a second .  if lambert were in real life being chased by fanatical devotees to a ninja secret society , he'd have a lifespan you could only measure with an atomic clock .  in this movie , the ninja manage to kill just about everyone except him .  i imagine the japanese gods smiled down on lambert and provided him with a goof field that radiates out about ten feet from his body .  you know what a goof field is : that invisible zone in which anyone who has intent to do harm to you becomes a klutz no matter what their real dexterity is .  this is , of course , only the beginning of the movie's problems .  lambert eventually finds pseudo-safety with a long-haired modern-day samurai ( yoshio harada ) and his partner -- yoko shimada , who you may remember as lady toda buntaro in shogun .  they are the two best things in the movie ; in every scene they have authority and presence , and they actually look like they belong here , even when dressed in full samurai armor and wielding bows .  the script doesn't know what the hell to do with them .  lone , as the bad guy , is zero-dimensional .  the only bad-guy cliche he has to wallow around in is the one about how the bad guy always has exotic women dripping off of him .  in the hunted , this is elevated to the level of an insulting stereotype .  what's funny is that the peripheral characters in the hunted are not sterotypes -- there's a nice little scene with a tokyo cabdriver , and a girl in a pachinko parlor -- but many of the main characters are unsalveageably hateful .  also , the phenomenal instrumental troupe kodo has assembled a superior soundtrack -- get the cd -- that manages to survive despite the drek it's been designed to accompany .  there is an extended battle scene in the middle of the movie that is almost reason enough to watch the whole thing -- a gory , excellently staged fight on the bullet train that shows some real imagination for a moment , and then smothers it by trying to clumsily re-couple the whole thing with the movie's relentlessly stupid plot .  by the time we get to the final showdown , with lambert getting to wield his own sword ( which , judging from the ham-handed editing of one scene , was forged in seven hours or so ) , we no longer care .  we're not even given any definitive information about whether or not one of the key characters lives or dies !  someone once said that the key to good art -- good movies , good books , whatever -- is to start somewhere interesting , end up somewhere interesting , and show respect for the audience all along the way .  this movie bungles two out of three , badly . 
pos@ there's an old saying that states something about leaving the best for last .  george lucas certainly followed that adage when crafting the original star wars trilogy .  return of the jedi , the final installment of the series , is easily the most innovative , action-packed , and entertaining of the three films .  the dark , eerie atmosphere that oozed from every frame of the empire strikes back is gone .  instead , for return of the jedi , we have good triumphing decisively over evil , a resolution to a love triangle , and walking teddy bears .  even darth vader doesn't seem very intimidating this time around .  with the arrival of the emperor ( an apparition-like creature played by ian mcdiarmid ) , vader has turned into somewhat of a henchman .  return of the jedi picks up at an unspecified time after the conclusion of the empire strikes back .  luke skywalker ( mark hamill ) , princess leia ( carrie fisher ) , lando calrissian , ( billy dee williams ) , chewbacca ( peter mayhew ) , c3p0 ( anthony daniels ) and r2-d2 ( kenny baker ) are on a rescue mission to luke's home planet of tatooine .  their goal : to save han solo ( harrison ford ) from the clutches of the intergalactic gangster jabba the hutt .  it is at jabba's home , a creepy-looking stone fortress guarded by hog-nosed beasts , that most of the added special effects come into play .  from a hysterical scene involving a music group to the dreaded beast outside jabba's sand barge , the effects are top notch .  as soon as han is freed from his cryo-freeze and rescued from the clutches of the evil jabba the hutt , it's back to outer space , where the rebel alliance is about to face the empire's newest threat : a second , more powerful death star , that , if activated , could spell doom for anyone who stands against the emperor .  so , while the fleet prepares for the final battle , luke and company travel to the forest moon of endor to knock out the shield that defends the death star against all attacks .  there , they are befriended by the ewoks , the teddy bear-like native race , and luke , fearing that his presence is endangering the group , turns himself over to vader .  return of the jedi has some interesting elements .  the scenes which pitted luke against the emperor and vader are suitably tense and well-acted .  from a technical point-of-view , the space battles are amazing , easily hindering anything depicted in the previous films .  not only are there many , many more ships , but their speed and range of movement have been dramatically improved .  on one level , return of the jedi is almost worth watching for the special effects .  in the special edition , even more ships are added , making the final space battle incredibly fun to watch .  the acting in return of the jedi is stronger than in the previous films .  by now ( or then - 1983 ) , mark hamill , harrison ford , and carrie fisher have all matured in their on-screen personas .  the chemistry amongst the trio is terrific .  as in empire , billy dee williams gives us another human hero to root for .  newcomer ian mcdiarmid plays the emperor as a suitably creepy , cunning , and evil creature , although he's not as imposing as vader was in star wars .  although it was great fun watching star wars and the empire strikes back on the big screen , return of the jedi generates a greater sense of enjoyment .  with the spectacular , new special effects , the adorable ewoks , the sinister jabba the hutt , the evil emperor , the same old millenium falcon , darth vader's incredible betrayal , the destruction of the new death star , and the always lovable yoda , return of the jedi concludes one of the greatest trilogies ever made with a huge bang .  congratulations to george lucas , whose innovative mind entertains us now and will continue to entertain generations to come .   , 
neg@ capsule : lesbianism examined in the same hushed and reverential tones reserved for a terminal illness .  potentially interesting idea made stagy and boring .  claire of the moon is such an impossibly serious and sober movie that i was waiting for someone to sneeze , just to break the ice .  it's a perfect example of what my wife calls an s . f . e .  movie , where s . f . e .  means so f * * * ing earnest .  movies like this need wit and brashness to be absorbing .  claire is one strained speech after another , written delivered with all of the energy and spontenaity of a dmv clerk .  claire takes two women , claire and noel , both writers , and throws them together in the same cabin at a women-only writer's retreat .  claire wrights light comedy , while noel is a scholarly authority on porn and sexual behavior .  obviously , the two of them are going to have plenty to talk about , and for the entire one hundred and twelve insufferable minutes of this movie , that's all they do : talk .  the movie sets up its ( microscopic ) plot with beat-a-dead-horse-into-glue obviousness .  the evening talks at the camp are chaired by a motherly type named maggie , a self-professed lesbian , and when noel owns up to also being a lesbian , claire looks like she's been hit with a sockful of wet sand .  the movie then quickly degenerates into lots of scenes where noel glances at claire with significance , and claire looks out over the water reflectively .   ( ugh ! )  the most amazing thing about the movie is how people so intelligent can talk so much and yet get so little through their thick heads .  all of this , of course , leads up to a scene of complete inevitability : claire and noel , in a scene that should have come an hour earlier , because then the movie ends without even the benefit of reflection about what's just happened .  we never get a hint about how any of this has changed anyone , only how they felt about things that didn't even happen yet .  the problem with claire . . .  is not lesbianism as such , but the leaden way it's handled .  why is it that any " serious " ( a better word would be adult or at least thoughtful ) examination of sex in a movie almost always winds up producing a movie that's unwatchably boring ?  the way this movie deals with lesbianism , we might as well be watching an overheated docudrama about aids .  many other movies have used the same subject in ways that are a thousand times better -- more engaging , more creative , more intellectually and artistically interesting .  look at john sayles' lianna , or the interesting and little-seen desert bloom ; both of them have more life and vibrancy than claire .  what this movie needed was a good swift kick in the pants . 
pos@ expectation rating : a bit worse than expected ( mainly because i found the middle part to be a bit dull ) .  roger ebert gave it a four star review , and while he is a critic that uses the full scale , and i often agree -- such as dark city being the best film of 1998 , he must have seen a better film .  i read the book about five years ago and hugely enjoyed it .  the opening of a simple plan reminded me a bit of the sweet hereafter .  the landscape is snowy and cold , and is filmed what i feel is in a rather crisp manner ( which also reminds me of fargo ( which i loathed ) ) .  one can almost sense the cold .  but the movie far from the eye popping delights of the quick and the dead , instead raimi has made a more constrained film -- which probably is for the better .  this is probably not a movie that would have been improved by lots of odd shots .  the movie also reminded me of affliction , as the lead characters all seem to be hoping for and seeing a possibility to lead a better life than their father , and they see a chance for such a dream to come true .  this chance is uncovered in a snow covered field , where an airplane has crash landed .  in the plane three men find ? the american dream . . .  in a gym bag . ?  affliction too was set in a snowy landscape .  it really seems very simple .  just hold on to the money until spring , and if no one claims it , they'll be safe to spend it and their hope of experiencing the american dream can come true .  but the snow melts , and so might several of the character's hopes .  as in ? return to paradise ? , some of the characters are presented with a chance to do the right thing .  but doing the right thing might not result in a better result than something more selfish .  the movie's biggest strength is that it fact makes sense .  i have seen many movies based on books that just seem like selected scenes from the book visualized , eschewing anything remotely resembling a coherent story -- for example clear and present danger .  the biggest problem seems to over-familiarization with the story .  the writer perhaps feels that he doesn't have to present scenes that are clear to him , but the lack of which only baffles an audience which has not read the book .  this is definitely not the problem with a simple plan , even though the screenplay is by the book's author .  the movie is always clear on where it's going , and always makes sense .  i'm sue a lot was cut , but really i can't remember what .  even a minor scene involving a man complaining that he has paid for too much grains is included .  the man only comes in on mondays , but he claims that he has been charged for one purchase too many .  turns out . . .  well , see the movie .  one should be warned against seeing the trailer .  it reveals several scenes from the ending moments ( which yes , like in the book , it is a downer ) , several plot developments , and much of the beginning .  but much of this is not spelled directly out during the trailer , so if you're lucky , you'll have forgotten about all of this when you see the movie . 
neg@ there is a scene in patch adams in which patch is in the center of a courtroom , surrounded by people who are giving him a lively standing ovation because of his strong-worded attack on a group of stoic doctors .  when i noticed that the audience with whom i saw this film was reacting the same way , i realized that i was going to have a hard time finding someone who agrees with me about the quality of the picture .  you see , patch adams revolted me beyond all boundaries .  i hated this movie for every second that i sat watching it , and i actively hate it now , days later , with the simpering , superficial , nauseatingly sentimental images forever plaguing my memories .  i hate every element of the film , beginning with tom shadyac's shameless direction , and all the way up to the misguided and mishandled themes that the screenplay wants so desperately to convey .  the badness of patch adams is stupefying .  it's confounding .  i can't believe a film can be this bad .  and yet , it's based on a real man who probably has a good point to make .  in the film , patch is played by the undefeatable and indefatigable robin williams , in a performance of such insulting pathos and sledgehammer sympathy that i wonder now if he is even human .  in the beginning of the film , patch commits himself to a mental institution because he doesn't want to kill himself .  while there , he notices that the doctors don't care about the patients , and that the best way to get through to the patients is to treat them like human beings .  so , patch goes on a crusade to be a great doctor who actually talks to his patients .  he goes to medical school , where he meets truman ( daniel london ) and convinces him that it's good to help people .  he also meets carin fischer ( monica potters ) , the anti-male med student who just wants to go through the motions and be a successful doctor .  naturally , the dean of the medical school ( bob gunton ) hates patch , and wants to thwart his plans , even though patch gets the highest scores on all of his exams .  so patch decides that he's going to build a free clinic in the middle of nowhere to help people with any problem they may have .  and that , my friends , is the synopsis for what is easily the most abhorrent picture of 1998 .  on a superficial level , the film is not particularly bad : i wouldn't say the cinematography bothered me , and most of the performances seem to be exactly what shadyac was aiming for ( i actually liked potter's performance , even if she is wasted ) .  but the film fails fundamentally in execution .  every scene swells with grand , " emotional " music , played at maximum volume just to get us all to cry real hard .  take , for instance , the first scene , which shows patch sitting on a bus .  we don't know patch yet , but there's sad music , and it's supposed to make us really sad that he's sad .  later on , patch makes a lot of progress : he helps a dying patient ( peter coyote ) to enjoy the last days of his life , and the music as patch is pushing the patient recklessly through the halls of the hospital is very lively .  and when that patient finally dies ( spoiler alert ! ) , the music is very very sad .  but the problem with all of this is that the music should not be the center of the emotions .  real drama is character-based .  you grow to like someone , and then something bad happens , and you feel it .  we don't ever grow to know the dying patient ; he's simply a vehicle for patch's greatness .  real drama doesn't seem forced , or present just to make the audience cry .  that's why patch adams is not real drama .  it goes for every cheap tear imaginable , wringing tired and overbearing sentimentality out of every scene .  even scenes that have very little impact on the overall film are drowning in marc shaiman's sickening musical score .  sentimentality like this is indeed bad .  but it's not as bad as half-baked , simplistic themes .  you see , patch is a really great student .  he aces his tests without studying , and does it so effectively that people think he's cheating .  but patch doesn't think that memorizing facts is the way to become a good doctor .   " why don't we see patients until the third year ? " he bursts out every three seconds .  well , patch , that might have something to do with the fact that you need to learn something before you go treating patients .  not everyone has the capability of memorizing facts with no effort .  most of us have to study .  and a doctor who really wants to help , but doesn't know a toe from a finger , probably won't be too successful in preventing death .  oh wait , i almost forgot : the point of doctors is not just to " prevent death , " but to " improve the quality of life ! "  yes !  that is true !  and you can not do that without studying .  you can not do that without going to medical school .  what patch never seemed to understand was the possibility that maybe , just maybe , it is a good idea to study first and talk to patients later .  follow the rules ?  bah !  who needs the rules !  only uptight doctors follow the rules .  the real saviors are the ones running around the hospitals with big red spheres on their faces and sporting baggy yellow pants .  and then there's the free clinic issue , which i find shockingly , frighteningly idealistic .  a free clinic .  in the middle of the forest .  where patients can be taken to be helped .  for free .  how will patients be transported to the free clinic ?  will it have an emergency room ?  or is it just for mental patients ?  and who , may i ask , will pay for it ?  the film does give some token attempts to question patch's motives ( i think another character asks him how he's going to pay for it , in addition to a little bit of meaningless blather about hmos and medical insurance ) , but they certainly don't explore or challenge patch's ideas to any meaningful extent .  reader , please understand this : i am not making any kind of judgment on the real patch adams .  i know nothing about him .  if his beliefs mirror those of this film character , then i might like to have an intelligent discussion with him about them .  but regardless of what the real patch adams believes , the themes put forth in this film are simplistic and phony .  and in the last scene , the big , obligatory courtroom scene that forced my lunch halfway up my esophagus , patch does a lot of shouting .  actually , robin williams does a lot of shouting .  he shouts a lot about helping people , and a lot of people cry because they are moved by his words .  i won't tell you that you can't be moved by his words , because i , too , was moved by his words .  i was moved in such a profoundly negative way that i was reminded of how cheap and phony a cinematic experience can be .  patch adams is the cheapest of them all . 
pos@ satirical films usually fall into one of two categories : 1 ) long-term satire where everything , including the jokes , is somehow related on a large scale ( i . e .   " dr .  strangelove " ; 2 ) situation satire in which the comedy and themes are derived moment by moment and scene by scene ( i . e .   " men in black " ) .  what's unique about " wag the dog " is that it doesn't necessarily fit either of these descriptions , and yet is both at the same time .  the result is a clever comedy based on an original , smart premise , even if the focus does tend to wander a bit .  if there's anything that affects americans the most it's politics and showbusiness .  in this age of information and technology , we've been so conditioned by the media and the entertainment industry in our ways of perceiving things , it's gotten to the point that we are practically controlled by it .  we need the media to bring us the most up-to-date news , but we also need the escapism of hollywood to counter all that thinking .  this film starts off well by quickly establishing these ideas , and then presents an interesting scenario : if politics , the media coverage of politics , and the entertainment industry are so closely related , couldn't someone with the power and authority to manipulate one of the aspects manipulate them all ?  that's the idea conrad brean ( de niro ) , a professional washington spin doctor , comes up with in order to restore the president's good name who has been accused of child molestation just weeks before the election .  brean , along with the president's top advisor , winifred ames ( heche ) , fly to california to meet up with hot-shot movie producer stanley motss ( hoffman ) .  they pitch him an idea to " produce " the image of a war with albania ( it's a country no one's heard of so they people will buy it ) .  soon the wheels are in motion and the film's riffing satire comes into play .  we're inundated with the hollywood mind set as motss brings in a number of experts to help manage the situation , such as a folk singer , visual and sound effects technicians , and a modern style expert known as the fad king ( leary ) .  the initial atmosphere is rich with numerous pop culture references where everything somehow relates to something on tv , in the movies , or in the news .  the characters' dialogue is witty and funny , although some of the actual jokes and gags seem rather sitcom-esque .  for example , one scene shows motss and brean's production crew filming an actress portraying a poor albanian refugee .  motss ordered a kitten for the girl to carry , but instead wound up with a dozen different dogs .  since it's all computer-enhanced anyway , she ends up cradling a bag of tostitos with the kitten to be inserted later .  this demonstrates the film's ability to take a relatively ordinary situation and make it smart and funny just through the premise .  but then there's the gags and one-liners that , although are humorous , seem a little gratuitious in the long run such as motss not being able to remember the actress's name , or , whenever a problem emerges , always responding with , " this is nothing ! "  by the time the film makes it to the midpoint , everything that is going to happen in terms of plot happens .  the first act is quickly paced , while the second act contains most of the jokes and is the core of the film .  every ten minutes or so a new problem crops up that motss and brean must deal with , and it's always fascinating to see what they do and how they do it .  the screenplay provides good characterization and actually deals with most of the problems head-on in realistic manners .  however , it does have a tendency to avoid things and shift its focus from the election campaign and false war smokescreen to something a bit off the subject .  as the third act rolls around the satirical nature becomes more concerned with the situations and less so with the big picture .  what had started off as a brilliant , somewhat harmless conspiracy to fool the general public begins to seem more like something that would happen in a movie .  still , the situation comedy is quite funny , especially a montage showing the entire country flinging old shoes into trees to honor sgt .  willie schumann - a war hero motss and brean concocted .  truly great satire manages to create for an entertaining story that makes you laugh at the time , but think about afterwards and " wag the dog " at least succeeds in this respect .  however , in retrospect it seems like so much more could have been done , namely by extending the running time and filling in the plot holes .  then again , it's a valiant effort . 
neg@ this movie is written by the man who is deemed to be " one of the hottest writers in hollywood " .  he wrote the groundbreaking screenplay for scream ( 8/10 ) , then added the successful i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 )  script to his mix , and also created the popular tv series " dawson's creek " .  so when he asked to direct his first movie , based on his first ever script written , everyone and their grandma said " sure , go for it ! " .  uhhm , my question is . . . did anyone bother reading this stupid script ? ? ?  plot : ace student leigh ann watson is mistakenly caught with some cheating papers by the bitchiest teacher in the west , mrs . tingle , and set to lose her scholarship to college .  when she and her friends visit the teacher at home in order to explain their side of the story , they end up tying her up , and slowly trying to talk some sense into the hardheaded woman .  critique : it's not so much that this is a bad movie , than the fact that it sucks .  this movie is chock-full of one-dimensional characters , contains no actual humor that i was able to zone in on , zero tension or thrills , plot holes the size of my big ass , lame pop tunes played to mask nothing going on in the movie , and molly ringwald , vivica a . fox and lesley anne warren tossed away in throwaway roles .  i was primed for this film as its interesting premise had me thinking misery ( 8/10 ) and 9 to 5 , but unfortunately for williamson , he went nowhere with the bright foundation , making references to the exorcist and dr .  zhivago , which i doubt many in his target market will appreciate .  he also forgot about suspense , with all of his characters based on incomprehensible decisions , unbelievable motivations and simply boring us with all of their trite dialogue .  sure , katie holmes is cute , and her co-star , marisa coughlan , did a reasonably amusing impression of the exorcist ( worth two points out of my three on ten ) , but how can we forgive the biggest one-dimensional character in any film , holmes' rival in the film , mrs . tingle's complete unprofessionalism being let go by all others around her ( are teachers allowed to behave that way nowadays ? ) and a transparent romance between holmes and some long-haired dude , hired to be the poor man's version of skeet ulrich ( who himself is a poor man's version of johnny depp ! ) .  all in all , this movie was laughable for me , provided me with no insight into anything , demonstrated williamson's genuine lack of directorial skills alongside a juvenile script , and provided helen mirren with a great role to chew into , unfortunately forgetting to give her character any believability , humanity or capacity to comprehend .  no hip lines , no cheap thrills , just a dull time at the movie theater .  if you want to see a funny teenage movie , go see detroit rock city ( 8/10 ) , and thank my drunken , sorry ass in the morning .  little known facts about this film and its stars : kevin williamson's father was a fisherman .  kevin used his knowledge of fishing hooks and winches when creating the killer in i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  he is also a huge fan of steven spielberg and coincidentally , so is dawson leery on tv's " dawson's creek " , a show kevin created .  he was once an aspiring actor .  in fact , he even landed a bit part on tv's " another world " .  also , williamson has gone on record to say that an unsupportive english teacher who once told him that he would never amount to anything was the inspiration for mrs . tingle , which is also loosely based on the book " killing mr . griffin " by the writer of i know what you did last summer ( 7 . 5/10 ) ,  lois duncan .  he has also come out and said that he is a gay man .  helen mirren was born in london , england under the name ilynea lydia mironoff .  she is married to director taylor hackford , whose works include devil's advocate ( 8/10 ) and an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) .  this film was originally titled killing mrs .  tingle , but was changed after the columbine high school shooting incident .  actress marisa coughlan will star in kevin williamson next tv project called " wasteland " .  this is actor barry watson first full feature film .  he has played the character of " seth " on tv's " malibu shores " several times . 
pos@ review : a dog of flanders is the story of an adorable little boy named nello and his trials and tribulations in 19th century flanders .  living with his grandfather jehan ( jack warden ) in poverty , nello finds happiness in his life in spite of difficult times ( they are renting a spare one-room cottage , and the greedy , malevolent landlord who owns it threatens to throw them `out of the house' if they don't pay the rent ) .  nello also has a rather creative talent for drawing some of the most beautiful pictures that i have ever seen , in either a movie or in real life .   ( his hero is peter paul rubens , the great flemish painter of the 17th century . )  not that these are the only things that make nello's life happy , however .  he has a dog of flanders , whom he names patrasche , who is a heroic rin-tin-tin of the 19th century , whom he rescues from his cruel , unkind master .  in addition , he even has a best friend ( and future sweetheart ) in the lovely , wealthy aloise , whose father strongly disapproves of her hanging out with `lower-class' nello .   ( he thinks he's not good enough for her , and he would hate the idea of the two kids marrying . )  but then , he was a poor guy himself before he married ( as mentioned later on in the film ) .  one day , nello encounters a mysterious , yet kindhearted artist named michel la grande ( played wonderfully by jon voight ) , who tells the boy to keep drawing from his heart , and that perhaps one day he might land a career in being an artist .  and every christmas , there is a contest on which is the most beautiful painting of the year ; the winner getting a lot of money .  eager to save his home ( and his aging , dying grandfather ) , nello willingly decides to become an artist , asking aloise to pose for him .  one night , the two travel to a circus , where they have their fortune told ? one of the film's most delightful scenes ? that great happiness is destined for them .  she gives the kids a ring , whom nello places on aloise's hand .   ; ) afterwards , the two kids have a rollickingly good time dancing around in front of circus performers .  unfortunately , things are not all `la-dee-dah' in this tale .  aloise's father finally becomes so angry with nello that he forbids him to ever see aloise again .  bad enough that they can't see each other ( although we know nello and aloise , don't we ? ) , but that's only the start of nello's troubles .  aloise's farm is burned down , and nello is wrongfully accused ( by the landord of his cottage ) for starting the fire in order to take revenge on being forbidden to see aloise .  this decreases nello's reputation around the town , save aloise and her parents , and a kindly miller , william , who is very sweet to nello every time he drops by .  matters get much worse for nello when his grandfather dies , and he has to pay for his funeral .  but then things really get nasty when the landlord exiles nello from his own home ( for not paying his rental ) ? permanetly .  this means that nello and patrasche have to starve and walk out in the cold , freezing wind .  worst of all , the painting that he has desperately been working on during all this time , `the portrait of the princess' , fails to win the prize at the festival .  now nello and patrasche are really depressed , and close to freezing to death .  will nello be able to find any happiness in his life ?  will patrasche save the day ?  will nello make the fateful trip to join his mother and grandfather in paradise ?  a dog of flanders is a delightful , heartwarming family film that is sure to entertain kids of all ages .  even older ones who consider themselves too `sophisticated' for kiddie fare will be surprised to hear that this film is for grown-ups , too .  there have been other movies of this ilk ( boy and dog ) , and while this one falls into that category , it is mostly a story about overcoming difficulties and finding a good home for yourself .  move over ? or rather , roll over ? old yeller , this dog of flanders is a heartwarming delight .  the cinematography , courtesy of walther van den ende is beautiful , and really adds to the powerful drama of the film .  it also gives a feel of being in flanders ( the whole film was respectably shot in flanders ) .  the music from richard friedman is also remarkable ; an evocative , poignant score that recaptures music from the 19th century .  the opening song over the credits is very beautiful ( i hope the soundtrack is available ! ) , and there's a brief excerpt of `cheer up , charlie' from willy wonka and the chocolate factory ( sung by aloise , to nello , in another delightful scene ) .  the cast is first-rate : jesse james and jeremy james kissner , who play nello , are some of the most endearing , adorable young stars i have ever seen in my whole life ( so are the girls who play aloise , madyline sweeten as the younger , and farren monet as the older ) .  not that they are the only good stars , however .  jack warden is ideal as jehan , eliciting just the right amount of humor and compassion required for the character .   ( the scenes involving him and nello are heartwarming , touching ones . )  also , bruce mcgill is charming as the kindly miller william .  he's another one of my favorite characters in the film .  but jon voight , as i mentioned before , is the perfect choice for michel .  he brings a mysterious , yet gentle performance that makes us all feel good again when he reassures insecure nello that he * can * win the contest .  but what makes this film fun to watch is how well-defined the characters are , and the pace of the story ( best of all , it has a happy ending ? though i will * not * give it away ; sorry ) is strong and powerful enough for us to identify with the characters .  for the first time since the beginning of 1999 , there comes a film which doesn't rely on popular formula stuff , such as big-budget special effects , commercial rock soundtracks , or any of that stuff .  this one relies on telling a fully character-oriented story , with just the right amount of heart , humor , and drama .  that , to me , is what makes a dog of flanders all the more delightful .  eleanor o'sullivan of `the home news & tribune' noticed this , and was kind and generous enough to welcome it : `for want of a better word , a glow surrounds a dog of flanders .  its heart is in the right place and it engages you .  you can guess where the film is going because this is well-traveled territory , but with pros like voight and appealing young performers like kissner , an often-told story is well worth a revisit . '  in addition , there were a couple of other enthusiasts , such as chicago-sun times and the washington post ( you should read their reviews ; they're really positive ) .  other critics , however , were not so kind .  stephen holden of `the new york times' had more than a share of beatings to lay upon a dog of flanders via pen writing .  he found the film to be a `sea of sugary bromides' and condemned mr . voight's character as `hopelessly wooden ? adopts an accent even more indeterminate than the one he came up with for anaconda . '  in addition , `entertainment weekly' slam-dunked the film , condemning it as `the worst family film of the year . '  there have been so many other bad reviews like this , too .  my suggestion : disregard the critics .  they just have a big problem with touching family films , and one should never pay attention to them .  this dog of flanders may only be a little `family' movie ( it probably won't be a big hit in the style of titanic , but then again no other film has been since then ) , but that is not a bad thing in and of itself .  this is a story that is sure to warm your heart , and that is what really matters about a dog of flanders .  it is also one of the better family films around this year .  none of the other films i have seen this year ( though they were good ) have been so low-key and touching .  if you're looking for family-style entertainment , look no further than this charming boy-and-dog yarn .  go see it while you still can , for as i mentioned , it might not be a big bow-wow at the box office for a long time .  see it while you can .  there is really no need to compare a multi-million dollar blockbuster such as star wars : episode i ? the phantom menace or tarzan , or even the iron giant with a tender , sweet little family movie . 
neg@ midway through " anaconda " , documentary filmmaker terri flores ( jennifer lopez ) turns to a co-worker and says " i thought this movie would be my first big break .  instead , it's turned into a disaster . "  truer words have never been spoken .   " anaconda " is a monster movie with a lousy monster .  it's a suspense film that is utterly predictable .  it's a mess the film does manage to drum up some scares , but only in the most elementary way , like a jack-in-the-box .  as you turn the crank , you're totally aware that the damn clown is going to pop up , but somehow it's still mildly startling when it happens .  the main difference between the giant snake in " anaconda " and the clown in a jack-in-the-box is that the clown is more realistic .   " anaconda " boasts some of the worst special effects to appear onscreen in years .  animatronic shots of the snake look as phony as any of those cringe- inducing robots you've endured at disney world .  but it's the computer animated scenes that truly expand the meaning of the word lame .  in one shot , a character tries to flee from the monster by diving from a tree near a waterfall , but the giant snake springs out and loops around its hapless victim in mid air .  the scene , if done well , would have been a jaw- dropper .  here , the horribly bad digital effects look less convincing than a saturday morning cartoon .  what's really amazing is that the filmmaker's were so proud of this dreadful shot that they actually included it in the promotional trailers for the movie .  but enough about the phony snakes .  now it's time to talk about the lousy story .  heroic and very pale anthropologist eric stoltz leads a documentary film crew down a brazilian river in search of the shirishama indians , a legendary tribe that supposedly lives in the boondocks of the rain forest .  stoltz tells his crew " pray that you didn't forget your bug spray . "  apparently the female crew members bathed in the stuff , because they spend most of the film wearing skimpy tops and short shorts with no ill effect .  along the way , the group rescues a whacked-out lapsed priest ( jon voight ) who claims to know how to find the shirishama .  within minutes , they throw away all their plans and follow voight down a tributary into the land of creepiness .  from that point on , the film is a hodgepodge of scenes and shots ripped off from " jaws " and " dead calm . "  one of the oddest structural points of the film is the handling of eric stoltz .  early in the story , his character gets knocked into a coma by a river insect and spends virtually the rest of the movie unconscious .  so why did they hire an actor of the caliber of stoltz for what amounts to a cameo appearance ?  also , why did stoltz , who generally selects his roles with great care , agree to appear in this crap ?  ah , the mysteries of hollywood .  the remaining crew members are basically just snake food waiting to happen .  jonathan hyde is mildly diverting as a pompous englishman hired to narrate the documentary , but lopez and ice cube manage to rise above their cardboard characters .  lopez , who starred in " selena , " is an enormously appealing performer , possessing a vibrancy that makes even the most trite lines seem credible .  ice cube has a special charisma ; an ability to look like a macho adult and a frightened boy simultaneously .  there's also a special twinkle in his eyes , as if he's gently mocking his own tough-guy posturing .  but the movie really centers around the outrageously hammy performance of jon voight .  obsessed with capturing one of the giant anacondas , voight plays the villain in thick accent , with a series of leers and hisses , spouting the kind of dialogue usually heard only in episodes of " jonny quest . "  at one point , he looms over the crew and says " the anaconda is the perfect killing machine .  it strikes , wraps around you , holds you tighter than your true love .  and you get the privilege of hearing your bones break before the power of its embrace causes your veins to explode .   " that moment is so high-camp that it almost made the film tolerable .  almost .  fans of the horror genre may be tempted to check out " anaconda . "  don't .  there are a lots of horror films scheduled for release this summer , including another " alien " sequel .  wait for them , rent " jaws " in the meantime , and don't throw away your money and time on drivel like this . 
pos@ the second jackal-based film to come out in 1997 ( the other starring bruce willis was simply entitled the jackal ) , this one stars aidan quinn and donald sutherland , and is directed by a man who hailed from joblo's own alma matter , concordia university in montreal , canada .  the story is based on the exploits of the real terrorist known as the jackal , but does not pretend to be 100% factual .  plot : naval officer ramirez ( quinn ) gets called upon by the cia to impersonate the international terrorist known as the jackal , in order to put an end to the actual militant's radical activities .  he is chosen for this role because he physically resembles the real terrorist to a tee .  ramirez reluctantly agrees to take part in this " assignment " , and soon finds himself wrapped up in a true web of international terrorism , intrigue and double-personality syndrome ( which does not sit well with his uninformed wife and kids back in the states . )  critique : great premise is executed with enough style and thrills to keep the piece interesting throughout its close to two-hour runtime .  admittedly , i wasn't a huge fan of any of the main actors in this film , and didn't expect much from this movie beforehand , but surprisingly it did have its thrilling moments , as well as a mostly plausible and absorbing story line .  the first hour is mostly just a build-up of things to come , and does offer a great characterization of the jackal , but the second hour is the one that really cranks in the cool scenes and a sweet ending .  quinn was adequate in both roles as naval officer ramirez and the real jackal , but didn't offer anything extraordinary , in my opinion .  sutherland and kingsley seem to be playing the same role that they've played in both of their respective careers of late , but nonetheless , appeared to relish the cold-heartedness of their chosen characters .  i didn't like performance put forth from quinn's wife in this flick , but then again , she doesn't show up in most of the film , so that wasn't so bad .  i did however enjoy director duguay's interesting style and cinematic vision .  this thriller could easily have been boring during many sequences , but duguay always seemed to find something interesting to show the viewer .  i thought that was neat .  having said that , i didn't think the first hour needed to be as long as it was , and the film did have me tinkering on the bridge of believability when the " fake " jackal met with the " real " jackal's girlfriend without much retrospection on her part , but all in all , not too many complaints in a movie that could easily be enjoyed by all those who take pleasure in the spy and terrorist thriller genre .  little known facts : ben kingsley's real name is krishna banji , he stands 5 " 8 , was born in scarborough , england , and won the best actor honor in 1982's academy awards presentation for the title role he portrayed in ghandi .  many scenes from this film were actually shot in montreal , canada ( joblo's haven of restfulness ) .  donald sutherland has fathered actor kiefer sutherland , is canadian , and apparently still owns a place in the north of montreal . 
neg@ robin williams is a comedic genus .  that is , he is one when he's in a film that allows him space to move .   " flubber " straps him in a straitjacket , covers him with duct tape , stuffs him in a coat closet and piles furniture against the door to make sure that he doesn't get out .  in a re-make of its own 1961 " absent minded professor " , disney offers us proof that more is definitely less .  recycling old films ( " that darned cat " , " 101 dalmatians " ) dressed up as new is the newest money machine from the home of the mouse that roared .  professor phillip brainard ( williams ) is a terminally forgetful scientist teaching at a small college .  his fiancee , sara jean reynolds ( marcia gay harden ) , president of the college is none too happy with him because he's left her waiting at the altar due to his lack of short-term -- and long-term -- memory .  she's giving him one more chance .  he blows that chance when he invents " flubber " ( flying rubber ) and is so excited by his discovery that sara jean is once again awaiting him in her white dress .  his tardiness is helped along by his jealous flying robotic assistant who wants him all to herself .  it's not all bad news .  flubber is a green jello that can magnify and reflect energy that is applied to it .  brainard realizes the commercial potential within the goo can save the school from bankruptcy and being taken over by the town's evil industrialist charles hoenicker ( raymond barry ) .  while he's busy with his new breakthrough , the slighted sweetheart is being wooed by his sleazy rival wilson croft ( christopher mcdonald ) .  there's a flying car , flubber-enhanced basketball game and an assortment of broken lab equipment : none of which are the least bit interesting or funny .  at one point , my son looked around the audience and asked " why are these people laughing ? "  although williams turns in one of his least inspired roles , he is easily the most lively of the actors .  everyone else comes across as half-asleep .  the re-make is successful in that respect .  it feels like a bad disney movie from the sixties .  i remember the original as being charming , but my guess is that the memory from almost four decades ago has been artificially enhanced by the years .  there have been some updates .  fred macmurray's flying model t has been replaced by a t-bird .  his faithful dog charlie is now " weebo " , the hovering robot .  the biggest change is that , with sophisticated computer animation , we now can have films show off special effects without being at all entertaining .  flubber is anthropomorphized into a being supposedly with personality .  the gloop has little arms and legs and splits into tiny little gloopettes for a big dance number .  this has nothing to do with the story .  the only possible reason is to create merchandising opportunities so that kids can badger their parents into taking them to mcdonalds for the toys .  not that contributing little to the plot is a big problem .  there are very few aspects of the film that move the story and those that do don't make sense .  the discovery of flubber is going to save the college because brainard can sell his flying car to ford .  anyone with half a brain would be able to see that his intelligent flying automaton is worth billions .  it's unbelievable that his lover ( well , probably not a lover -- after all this is disney ) starts dating croft after the aborted wedding .  there's not one appealing component of this man .  after the professor discovers that smearing a golf ball with the gunk causes it to bounce uncontrollably around his lab wreaking havoc , i cringed as he picked up a bowling ball .  this guy is beyond forgetful , venturing into the certifiable .  co-writer john hughes used to direct light-weight but thoughtful teen films .  the care behind " pretty in pink " and " the breakfast club " all went out the window after his " home alone " franchise heated up the box offices .  looking much like " home alone 3 1/2 " , " flubber " even features a couple of vapid goons who get banged around and a cute little boy who screams a lot .  in some ways , it's difficult to judge this film .  i have a suspicion that i'm not it's target audience .  after all , i measure my age in two digits . 
pos@ i rented this movie with very high hopes .  this movie got praise as one of the best films of 1998 , and unfortunately , was not as good as i hoped , but was still very intriguing and thought provoking .  first of all , the casting for this film is great .  tobey maguire and reese witherspoon are the future of hollywood .  they play their roles as the parker brother and sister perfectly .  with a plot as unbelievable as this film , you need chemistry and honest acting from your cast .  tobey and reese ( bud and mary sue parker ) play their roles perfectly and display their characters with honesty and believability .  william h . macy , an actor i have grown to love over the past year , turns in another great performance as the tv dad who is torn over his wife , a " colored " person and his friends , the " non-colored " ones .  he also displays believability and must display a certain lack of chemistry with his wife .  he does this perfectly and yet again shows why he should be one of the top actors in hollywood .  joan allen is equally great as betty parker , the ideal tv mom .  her character is the most ambitious .  she is very na ? ve , and must display this well to make her character believable and she does just that .  her lack of chemistry with macy , which the role calls for , and her developed chemistry with jeff daniels is terrific , and if daniels would have been as stellar as the rest of the cast , then this film would even been even better .  as said before , jeff daniels gives a bad performance .  his character displays the change going on throughout the town , yet he does not display it with enough conviction .  his character is very confusing and he is not very believable .  this film could have been elevated to a whole new level had daniels been able to give a better performance .  the movie is very provocative .  it challenges the issues of racism that existed in the past and that still exist today .  i really was not expecting all of the elements they brought up , but they pulled them off with such flair that it was mind blowing .  they demonstrate the racism issue without a hitch , but do it in a slow pace .  the only major flaw in the film besides the performance by daniels is length .  some films are not meant to be that long .  pleasantville is one of those films .  this film could have been so much better had they not moved so slowly to it .  first , they are amazed by the implementation of color .  then they want to have it .  then they do not want to .  then the war ensues between the colored and non-colored .  this is all strung out over two hours , which was way too long .  some movies need a lot of time .  saving private ryan was a little bit under three hours long and i thought it could have used more time .  this film is only two hours long , and seems much longer .  length is everything in films .  if you can nail down the perfect timing and pace , you can win half the battle .  pleasantville can move at a good pace at times , but it is not consistent enough .  overall , pleasantville is a very pleasant and provocative departure from the predictability of most films these days .  i went in expecting a light-hearted film about change .  i left learning an important lesson about racism and the way things change .  luckily , pleasantville teaches this lesson in such a way to make it appeal to all audiences .  only if it could have done in a shorter amount of time . 
neg@ phil ( radmar jao ) has a hairy problem .  his beard is growing so rapidly that he has to shave every hour .  he recently met the author of a non-fiction book on lycanthropy , also referred to in the movie as werewolfism , and phil now believes that his problem is that he has become a werewolf .  using enough chains and handcuffs to be a hit at a sadomasochists convention , he ties himself in at night lest his urges overcome him .  and phil is just one of the many quirky characters that inhabit shopping for fangs .  made on a pittance , the film features an almost exclusively asian-american cast .  as directed by quentin lee and justin lin , the movie is so amateurishly bad that it could almost be a parody of indie films .  jeanne chin plays katherine , a meek and soft-spoken wife , who worries that her husband is unhappy with her because she is not giving him enough sex .  we know this through the endless scenes of her confessing her sins , real and imagined , to her therapist .  as her husband , jim , clint jung plays a muscle man with a macho crudeness .  the picture is filled with stereotypes .  there's a mysterious , loud-mouthed waitress with a big , platinum blonde wig who brags to everyone she meets that she's a lesbian .  she spends most of the movie putting the moves on her favorite customer , a gay guy .  and the lone white with a major role , the author on werewolfism , has wildly unkempt , orangey blonde , curly hair .  from its opening scene of an attempted rape at knifepoint to its easy to guess ending twist , the script rarely has anything to offer .  the story is so minimally developed that it feels almost like the actors were ad-libbing .  one can only hope that the directors' next film will have some substance and some credible acting .  shopping for fangs runs 1 : 30 .  it is rated r for sex , violence , and profanity and would be fine for older teenagers . 
pos@ after the press screening of " moulin rouge , " i stood in the lobby of the theater listening to the reactions of my friends and colleagues .  everyone seemed a bit numb , understandable after sitting through a barrage of often-incongruous sounds and images .  a pal of mine simply said that he loved the film and could hardly wait to take his wife to see it .  another enthusiast immediately began to analyze the production , while a woman who flat-out hated the movie gave him the skunk eye .  when one fellow quietly stated " i've never really been a fan of musicals , " the statement surprised me because , even though the story is told almost completely through song , i didn't think of it as a musical .  there is so much going on in " moulin rouge " that " musical " seems too small a term to cover it .   " moulin rouge " is the kind of creation that sends critics scurrying off to the big tub o' adjectives in search of proper words to describe the experience .  australian director baz luhrmann , the man behind " strictly ballroom " and " romeo + juliet , " fills the heads of viewers with unique camerawork , opulent imagery and songs ranging from " the sound of music " to " smells like teen spirit . "  sumptuous and beautiful , vulgar and overdone , " moulin rogue " travels through the looking glass while an ethereal stereo loaded with 50 years worth of catchy tunes operates on the " random " setting .  oh , and it has a story as well .   " it was 1899 , the summer of love . . .   " christian ( ewan mcgregor ) is a penniless young writer newly arrived in paris , " to write about truth , beauty , freedom and love , " where he encounters a group of bohemians , led by henri de toulouse-lautrec ( john leguizamo ) .  christian meets satine ( nicole kidman ) , a courtesan from the legendary moulin rogue , and his world transforms from black and white to technicolor .  at once fragile and vivacious , the dazzling red-haired woman sweeps him off his feet without even trying .  christian instantly falls in love with her and satine finds herself smitten with him as well , which is quite a hindrance for someone in her profession .  working with the bohemians and moulin rogue impresario harold zidler ( jim broadbent ) , christian writes an opus modestly named " spectacular spectacular . "  zidler quickly finds a backer , the wealthy duke of monroth ( richard roxburgh ) , but there's a catch ? the duke also wants the hand of the fair satine .  as if all that isn't enough , satine has a cough , and while a cough in the real world probably indicates a cold , it rarely turns out to be anything that simple in movie land .  like a teeter-totter , " moulin rogue " moves up and down between the ridiculous and the sublime .  one of the loveliest moments comes as christine and satine commune outdoors at night , becoming part of a defiantly unrealistic parisian cityscape straight from a book of fairy tales .  together they dance , while serenaded by the man in the moon ( alessandro safina provides the vocals ) , apparently transported from the classic georges m ? li ? s silent film to guard the nocturnal sky .  other scenes merely traffic in everything-and-the-kitchen-sink overload .  the cavorting of toulouse-lautrec and his comrades gets strained at times and some of their overt comedy , accompanied by cartoon sound effects , is overly reminiscent of the frenzied farce that sitcoms like " bewitched " beat into the ground .  of course , sensory overload was exactly what baz luhrmann had in mind .   " we never heard from baz to turn it down , " one of the actors told the los angeles times .   " it was always , 'more !  more ! ' "  the director even sent a note to his cast reading , " i dare you to make me say you've gone too far . "  the musical numbers reflect his attitude .  one knockout piece , the " elephant love medley , " incorporates the beatles' " all you need is love , " u2's " in the name of love , " dolly parton's " i will always love you " and elton john and bernie taupin's " your song . "  need more ?  how about " diamonds are a girl's best friend " spiced with portions of " material girl ? "  luhrmann's cast offers a wide variety of approaches that , together , add up to something messy , but often wonderful .  ewan mcgregor is extremely likable as christian , emphasizing the sincerity of the love-struck poet .  mcgregor's singing voice is robust and adds vigor at just the right moments .  once labeled the " ice queen , " nicole kidman melts that characterization with a sizzling , yet tender , performance .  she handles the songs adroitly , although her voice sounds a bit thin in the upper range .  veteran character actor jim broadbent is suitably larger than life as ringmaster zidler ? wait until you see him perform " like a virgin . "  as the buffoonish duke , richard roxburgh proves to be the film's weakest link , although i'm sure he was simply following instructions .  i suspect " moulin rogue " will be one of those love-it-or-hate-it films .  while i didn't completely love it , i most certainly liked it a lot .  over the course of a year , i see well over 300 movies , and most of them look like xeroxes of each other .   " moulin rogue " is an original , and an original , even a flawed one , is a thing to be cherished . 
neg@ wild things is a way to steam up an otherwise dreary early spring day ? provided , of course , that you're the victim of a frontal lobotomy .  there is , in fact , no doubt about who this motion picture is aimed at : movie-goers in their late teens and early twenties -- the most lucrative target group .  this is film noir for the mtv generation : fast-paced , slick , flashy , gleefully mindless , and hollow to the core .  wild things is easily one of the five dumbest movies to arrive in theaters during the first eleven weeks of 1998 .  i've seen more convincing drama ( with nearly as much bare flesh ) on that pinnacle of narrative quality , baywatch .  wild things wants to dupe viewers into thinking it's a thriller with a real story .  what it is , however , is a series of increasingly- improbable and shockingly predictable plot twists .  everything in between those serpentine moments is filler -- a flash of a breast , a spatter of blood , and some of the most idiotic dialogue this side of a steven seagal movie .  the film tries so hard to surprise its audience that the twists end up being easy to guess -- just take a stab at the most unlikely thing to happen , and that will probably be it .  using this approach , i was right three times and wrong only once .  that's not a good average for a production that wants to keep viewers in the dark about what's around the next corner .  the ad campaign uses two things to sell this movie : the hot , young cast and the old standby , sex .  both have an abundance of screen time , although i'll admit that the film's erotic content is somewhat less impressive than i expected .  nothing about wild things is exceptionally risqu ? .  the soft-core sex sequences are generic , and don't generate much heat .  the lesbian kisses can't hold a candle to those in bound .  theresa russell and denise richards have only token topless appearances ( neve campbell , possessing an iron-clad " no nudity " clause in her contract , keeps her clothes more or less on ) .  the film's greatest curiosity is a full frontal shot of kevin bacon climbing out of the shower .  maybe a few girls will skip seeing a fully-clothed leonardo dicaprio for the thirteenth time in titanic to catch a glimpse of what kyra sedgwick ( mrs .  kevin bacon ) is familiar with .  the director of wild things is john mcnaughton , whose last effort was the finely-tuned psychological thriller , normal life .  that movie featured copious sex , a pair of real characters , and a powerful script .  it's difficult to believe that something this shallow could come from the same film maker .  but i suppose we all need to put food on the table .  mcnaughton appears to have completely lost his way here , in what is obviously a stab at mainstream success ( his previous wide-release picture , mad dog and glory , was a box-office disappointment ) .  quick cuts and pretty sunrises can't even begin to cover up this movie's flaws .  the main character ( and i use that term lightly , since no one in wild things shows more than an occasional flash of personality ) is sam lombardo ( matt dillon ) , a guidance counselor at florida's blue bay high school .  a student , the deliciously curvaceous kelly van ryan ( denise richards ) , has a crush on him .  one afternoon , she comes to his house to wash his car , and , when she leaves , her clothing is torn .  after confessing to her mother ( theresa russell ) that she was raped , she goes to the police station , where she tells her story to detectives ray duquette ( kevin bacon ) and gloria perez ( daphne rubin-vega ) .  they are skeptical about here claims until another girl , suzie toller ( neve campbell ) , comes forward with a similar tale .  meanwhile , sam , convinced that he's being set up , goes to a shyster lawyer ( bill murray ) for help .  the acting in wild things isn't very good , but none of the principals have much to work with .  this is definitely not a character- based motion picture .  not only does the ludicrous screenplay ignore the possibility that someone in the audience may have a triple-digit i . q . , but it doesn't bother to give any of the on-screen individuals even a hint of depth .  the men and women populating the picture are there to look nice , but nothing more .  matt dillon is given plenty of opportunities to flex his biceps .  neve campbell gets to model the slutty look .  denise richards strikes a fetching pose in a see-through , one-piece bathing suit .  and nothing in the film gets a rise out of kevin bacon .  the only one who's even remotely interesting is bill murray , and he seems to think he's in comedy , not a thriller ( maybe he's got the right idea ) .  columbia pictures has specifically requested that critics not reveal the film's ending , which prompts the question : which ending do they want kept secret ?  wild things has no less than three ( one occurs during the end credits , so stay seated ) , all of which are jaw-droppingly absurd -- a feat that joe eszterhas ( the writer of basic instinct and showgirls ) would be impressed by .  thanks to jeffrey kimball's polished , kinetic cinematography , wild things always looks great , and george s . clinton's score keeps it pulsing and throbbing .  but , no matter how shiny the superficial sheen is , this is still trash , and , like all garbage , it stinks . 
pos@ susan granger's review of " the closet " ( miramax films )  in this hilarious french farce , a shy , boring accountant ( daniel auteil ) named francois pignon discovers he's going to be fired from his job at a condom factory .  lonely and distraught , he contemplates suicide .  but then he runs into belone ( michel aumont ) , an elderly homosexual neighbor , who suggests a " sex discrimination " lawsuit to intimidate management .  as evidence , belone concocts provocative photographs of pignon locked in a leather-clad embrace with another man and mails them anonymously to pignon's boss .  when the racy snapshots start circulating around the factory , not only does pignon get his job back but he suddenly finds himself the focus of attention as an openly gay man .  his lusty supervisor ( michele laroque ) is so intrigued that she wonders if , perhaps , she could change his sexual preferences .  even his ex-wife ( alexandra vandernoot ) and indifferent teenage son ( stanislas crevillen ) drop their disdain .  but not everyone is enchanted .  a mucho macho co-worker felix ( gerard depardieu ) , a self-righteous homophobe , is stunned and repulsed when he's forced by the pr director ( thierry lhermite ) to grovel and court pignon's friendship or risk losing his own job .  writer/director francis verber artfully milks the farcical comedy as he dissects the hypocrisy of political correctness , veering off-track only occasionally into pedophilia .  daniel auteuil ( " the widow of saint-pierre " ) is delightful - particularly with a blown-up condom perched on his head , riding on a float in a gay pride parade - and gerard depardieu delivers one of his most restrained , and effective , performances .  on the granger movie gauge of 1 to 10 , " the closet " is a frankly sexual , adult 8 .  it's so clever , in fact , that hollywood is already planning to re-make it in english , like " la cage aux folles . " 
neg@ there have been bad films in recent years : 'mr .  magoo' was by far the worst ever made , the spectacularly bad 'blue in the face' , the horrible 'baby genuises' and now 'i woke up early the day i died' .  it may not however be the worst movie made but it certainly ranks as one bad movie .  the film's acting ( if that's what you want to call it ) is well mediocre to me .  loaded with a sensational cast you would think that the cast would at least save the film a bit , boy was i wrong .  after escaping from a mental institution 'the thief' played by billy zane goes out in the real world and finds that it is pretty harsh and gritty .  he turns to burglary to survive , robs a loan back , kills the loan officer and runs with thousands .  a country-wide man hunt is on for him to catch him and bring him down .  he ends up in a cemetery where he puts his money in a coffin to keep it for later , comes back and realizes that someone took it and put it somewhere .  now he is determined to kill all the visitors at the funeral earlier that day until he gets his money back , ultimately leading to a finale that is less that satisfying .  a film which was based on a 'long-lost' script by ed wood , i have only one question : no dialogue , only music and movement where exactly is the point ?  the film moves along at a rather slow pace , but does have one advantage : the soundtrack which is catchy and vibrant except the first song which can be offensive to some .  it opens with a fun , innovative opening credits sequence and quickly goes downhill after that .  some of the low points are when 'the thief' steals a woman's purse , and then she faints , sandra bernhard as a dancer and tippi hendren as a deaf woman whom 'the thief' kills to the music of 'psycho' .  come on people get some new ideas already !  what's even worse is that the film has no plot at all .  well to a certain extent it does , but who cares by the time the middle of the film arrives we're bored out of our mind and ready for something fun and exciting to happen .  'i woke up early the day i died' is a perfectly bad film .  it shows us how low filmmakers get sometimes just when desperate to make a movie .  even with the huge cast talent , the film is a waste of my time and certainly a waste of yours . 
pos@ everyone's heard about this movie , and more specifically , * the * scene .  everyone's heard the famous barnyard animal quote squealed ( no pun intended ) over and over .  and everyone's got to admit that they will never travel down a river again without thinking of deliverance .  good !  that's what you're supposed to do !  oh , if you are one of the ones who hasn't seen this yet , or you ( somehow ) haven't heard about what happens , here's your spoiler warning .  deliverance was a real shocker for it's time ( 1972 ) .  major advances were being made in films , and deliverance made its own advances when it introduced a new horror into the film industry .  when it was first released , it literally shocked the audiences .  it was something that , for the most part , had really never been seen on the big screen before ( among wide-release films with an r rating ) .  but by today's film standards and in today's world , such scenes as the one in deliverance can be reproduced in a way that isn't as shocking , although they can be even more graphic ( e . g .  pulp fiction ) .  pulp fiction did it in a way , and expanded on it in a way , that it could even be interpreted as funny .  but in 1972 , deliverance was no laughing matter .  the story centers around a group of four atlanta men who decide to take a rafting trip down a backwoods river in georgia while the river is still there and in its glory .  the initial leader of the group is lewis ( burt reynolds in his prime ) , a real outdoorsman and more of a daniel boone-type then any of the others .  joining him are ed ( jon voight ) , bobby ( ned beatty ) , and drew ( ronny cox ) .  the group's first objective is to find someone ( s ) to drive their cars down the river to the point where they will end their trip .  they make arrangements with a few mountain men , who accept $40 . 00 for the task .  drew also has the famous " dueling banjos " competition with a local who is , let us say , genetically challenged .  the men then set off down the river , with lewis , also the master at canoeing , leading the way .  everything seems to be going fine , until the two canoes split up , leaving the unexperienced ed and bobby alone .  they encounter two hillbillies , armed with a shotgun , who captured them .  ed is tied to a tree while bobby is sodomized by one of the men .  ed nearly receives the same cruelty , but lewis arrives just in time to fire an arrow through the rapist's back .  the other hillbilly gets away , and the men have to decide what to do with the dead body .  disposing of dead bodies is done rather frequent throughout this film .  while attempting to make a quick " paddle for it " , both canoes tip over .  drew , who was without a life jacket , was possibly shot and cannot be found .  lewis suffered a rather nasty compound fracture during the incident and is in serious condition .  this leaves ed and bobby .  ed decides to go out and look for the remaining hillbilly , alone , with the bow and arrow .  the question arises if he will be able to handle himself , as he horribly botched a first shot attempt at a deer , to which his comment " i wonder how anyone could kill a living thing " will have more meaning in the future .  deliverance is definitely a wild ride ( oops , i'm doing it again ) .  it is extremely tense at some points and very dramatic .  it's definitely one of those " must see " movies and should be considered one of the classics of its decade . 
neg@ first troy beyer wrote the critically panned " b . a . p . s . "  now she makes her directorial debut , writing , directing , and starring in this sub-par film about women talking about sex .  though not without redeeming qualities , this film is bad .  the basic story follows three single friends -- jazz ( beyer ) , lena ( randi ingerman ) , and michelle ( paget brewster ) -- in their search for love .  jazz has an idea for a local talk show ; it would feature women talking about sex and dating .  she and her friends make a demo tape of interviews with the women of miami .  the film itself is sprinkled with these real interviews throughout , both as part of the plot and as commentary on the situations of the main characters .  the fact that they are real provides a refreshing break from some of the more melodramatic moments in the film .  there are several moments of bad acting , corny dialogue , and emotional overextension .  in a low-budget independent film from a first-time director , these faults can sometimes be forgiven , if the screenplay is fresh and solid .  that is not the case here .  the script suffers from random plot developments .  there are four or five of these turns in the plot , each one raising the question " where did that come from ? "  at one point , a character has a lifelong reconciliation with her mother .  we are supposed to be moved , but since the scene is completely un-led-up to , we really don't care if she and her mother get along .  we've never seen her mother before .  we never see her again .  who cares ?  what's worse , these sudden developments are supposed to engage our sympathy .  at another point , a character announces that she can't have children .  apparently , this is devastating .  we wouldn't know this because she never talked about having kids before , but we are nevertheless expected to be devastated for her .  the scene feels like an afterthought , its emotion manipulative and shallow .  these scenes grow worse and worse , culminating in an absurd climax .  two scenes were played with such overwhelming melodrama that i found myself laughing .  one scene is a lover's spat between two minor characters .  the other has the main characters expressing their copious grief by cleaning house in wails of despair and clouds of ajax .  thinking on these scenes , it is hard for me to admit that the film has redeeming qualities .  but it does .  first , it is original .  we men often wonder what women talk about when they are alone in groups , and i imagine this film gives me a pretty good idea .  it's something i don't think has been the subject of a film .  second , the interviews of the miami women are sincere .  taken together , they form a mosaic picture of miami beachwalkers and bistro diners .  the mosaic is made of sound bites and stereotypes , but each tile is some woman's real experience .  neither the picture of women , nor their picture of men , is truly representative , but the point is that both sets of generalizations are telling in their own way .  at some level , the stereotypes that emerge can be called true .  i can imagine some people liking this film when its characters talk about their " likes , dislikes , skills , and thrills , " but on the whole , it's pretty bad .  and that makes it even harder to forgive the bad acting , corny dialogue , and emotional overextension .  i'll give beyer one more strike , and then she's out .  rated r ( almost got an nc-17 ) for explicit sexual dialogue and nudity . 
pos@ insane ( but inspired ) musical about alferd packer , the first man ever tried for cannibalism in america .  as the story unfolds we learn what events led to packer ( trey parker ) supposedly killing and eating the five men who got lost while accompanying him through the mountains of colorado in search of gold .  throughout , packer must contend with evil trappers bent on stealing his prized horse , a tribe of `ute' indians that doesn't seem quite on the mark , and a terrible winter storm that leads to the eventual cannibalism .  parker obviously knows his musicals very well , because the viewer is also treated to some of the most maddeningly catchy songs to appear in a film ( he would accomplish this again in his post-cannibal !  musical motion picture , south park : bigger , longer , and uncut ) .  apart from the inherent interest of seeing a pre- " south park " parker and stone in their first effort , cannibal !  also offers up some pretty decent laughs .  the aforementioned `ute' indian tribe that packer's group encounters is a definite highlight , as are two rousing musical numbers about snowmen ( one of which ends on a comedically deadly note ) .  stone's humphrey character steals the show , especially when complaining about the prospect of having to `eat butt' or revealing what's underneath his muff cap .  jason mchugh's character of mr . miller is the stand out performance though , as he offers a hilarious dissenting voice to the proceedings .  as i mentioned before , parker's songs are very catchy .  you'll be hard pressed to get `it's a shpadoinkle day' out of your head once you've heard it ( incidentally , the braniff logo that appears at the end of every " south park " episode is scored with a few notes from this song ) .  other songs you'll find yourself humming include `when i was on top of you' ( a love ballad ) , `the trapper's song' ( the villains leit motif ) , and `hang the bastard' ( the rousing finale ) .  thankfully , none of these songs are quite as embarrassing to find yourself singing in public as south park : bigger , longer & uncut's songs are .  released as a pick-up through troma studios , the film is available on videocassette and dvd .  the videocassette includes an intro by the beautiful jane jensen and an interview segment with lloyd kaufman , discussing his admiration for parker and stone and the fact that they had been hired for a zucker brothers film ( which turned out to be the hilarious baseketball ) .  there are also multiple trailers for upcoming troma films .  as for the dvd . . .  well , that's a different story .  probably one of the best dvd packages of the year ( and potentially of all time ) , cannibal !  the musical !  the dvd is a massive achievement .  presented in 1 . 33 : 1 ( full frame ) only , the disc has the usual troma inclusions : the tour of troma , the troma intelligence test 2 , trailers for upcoming releases , but where the disc truly shines is in its cannibal !  specific extras .  the first thing i must note is , the transfer is about as beautiful as any i've ever seen on any disc .  the picture is crisp , clear , and free from any noticeable artifacts .  add to that one of the funniest commentary tracks i have ever heard , featuring trey parker , matt stone , jason mchugh , dian bachar , and andy kemler getting drunker and drunker as the track continues and you still haven't scratched the surface of the extras .  there's also behind the scenes footage of the shooting of the film , a clip with trey , matt , and lemmy ( of the band motorhead ) from the film terror firmer , an index for easy location of all of the songs in the film , and finally , an index of all the songs as performed by the cast of a stage production of cannibal ! .  it's good to see this film finally get the treatment it deserves .  kudos to the entire production staff at troma and aix for making one of the most entertaining dvds i have seen in a very long time . 
neg@ capsule : dumb dud of an entry in the body heat sweepstakes , and now something of a landmark for having spawned a jillion clones .  basic instinct's worst crime is that it's not just a bad movie , but in many ways , an incompetent one as well .  it's stupid in itself , and stupid to think its audience is as stupid as it is .  it's supposed to be a thriller , but the plot is dead on its feet , and ultimately arbitrary ; it's only put into the movie to jerk us around .  it's also supposed to be sexy , but it's instead got the unpleasant rawness of a teenager showing younger kids his collections of dirty pictures .  it's a ripoff .  the story opens with a rock star being murdered while in the throes of orgasm .  the biggest suspect is an authoress , catherine tramell ( sharon stone ) , who wrote a novel in which the murder was eerily presaged .  or maybe it's the work of a copycat ?  these and other plot threads get fed to the detective who's on the case ( michael douglas ) , who has a few problems himself .  like we wonder if his elevator goes to the top floor .  we can measure with a stopwatch the time from them setting eyes on each other to the moment they are doing the mattress dance .  joe eszterhas has written the screenplay , and he uses a device that he used before in the much better jagged edge : the killer's identity is kept a secret until the movie's final shot .  this isn't in itself a problem -- the problem is that up until that point , we've been given nothing to work with .  every clue in the movie -- every clue -- is ambiguous .  the whole thriller aspect of the movie is a shill .  red herrings , dead plot threads , violence , and kinky sexuality litter the movie like potholes in manhattan streets .  they add up to zip , because they're not happening to people we care about .  douglas's character is foulmouthed and bitter and that's it ; stone's character has an iron-on smile that never changes ; the rest are forgettable .  when we don't even have the luxury of giving a damn about anyone in the movie , who cares what happens in it ?  especially with an ending that is not only unsatisfying , but in many ways inexplicable ?   ( a friend of mine once came up with a rule of thumb about movie characters : " if no one in the movie behaves like anyone you know , or would * care * to know , just leave ! " )  one of the nastier things about the movie is the way it treats lesbianism not as an integral part of someone's life , but as a kind of kink -- something to thrill men with .  i despair whenever i encounter this kind of stupidity in mainstream entertainment ; are we still so culturally neanderthal that the only way to include something like that in a big-budget hollywood film is as a hefnerism ? 
pos@ a big surprise to me .  the good trailer had hinted that they pulled the impossible off , but making a blues brothers movie without jake blues ( john belushi ) is such a dumb idea i really had no hope .  they replaced him just fine .  not with john goodman , he didn't do much of anything , but with the brilliant actor joe morton , who can really sing .  the fourth blues brother is j evan bonifant , who's ten .  this was another of my fears for the film , but he's a really good dancer , and plays a mean harmonica ( although he may have been dubbed ) .  things that intellectually had bothered me before , like no mission from god , everyone being richer , it not being filmed in chicago -- gave me no problems at all .  i'm quite pleased that there were less car pile-ups , because they meant less music , and john landis seems to have lost interest in the whole thing .  there's a few early crashes , and then one huge pile-up , but after that it all stops .  it's just the music .  one of my problems with the first is that cab calloway's song is so good the actually blues brothers look dull after him , but there's no problems with this .  the music is all as good as ever , tons of great musicians showing up -- with the exception of johnny lang , who can't sing , all the musicians do a great job .  the only real problems i had was the special effects .  these were superfluous and a waste of money .  since the film isn't doing very well , they could mean we have no possibility of another sequel , which i want to see .  the bluegrass version of riders in the sky is even better than rawhide .  -- http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/academy/8034/  remove no spam to reply .   " drive carefully but recklessly " , mama , child's toy " the only excercise i take is walking behind the coffins of friends who took exercise . "  peter o'toole 
neg@ in the line of duty is the critically praised series of television movies dealing with the real-life incidents that claimed lives of law enforcement officers in usa .  the twilight murders , another one from the series , is dealing with the case of gordon kahl ( played by rod steiger ) , old farmer from north dakota who would rather spend a year in prison than pay taxes to the despised u . s . government .  after being released , he still refuses to pay taxes and the warrant is issued for his arrest .  when the u . s . marshals come to arrest him , it turns out that kahl isn't alone .  many poor farmers in rural northwest share his extremist anti-government beliefs , and the routine operation turns into shootout that would leave federal officers that .  that brings fbi on the scene , and agent mayberly ( michael gross ) is supervising the manhunt .  however , his efforts seem fruitless , since kahl still has many supporters , some of them even in the local law enforcement .  after betrayed , 1988 thriller by costa gavras , hollywood mostly ignored the disturbing trends of rising right-wing extremism in the american northwest , and that remained so until oklahoma city bombing , when media hype brought right-wingers back into spotlight .  until that time , only the television movies like this one bothered to pay attention to that phenomenon .  unfortunately , the twilight murders is still routine and formulaic television film , that uses sensationalist real life content in order to cover lack of originality in the script .  sometimes , like many american tv movies , it creates drama where drama shouldn't be .  on the other hand , film is steadily directed by dick lowry , and rod steiger does good job potraying gordon kahl .  on the other hand , michael gross as his pursuer is quite wooden and his interaction with some of the actors is terrible .  however , film does deal with potentially thought-provoking social and political issues , so hour and half spent in front of the screen shouldn't be the total waste of time . 
pos@ disney's 35th animated feature-- a retooling of the olympian legend crossed with , well , the superman story-- is surprisingly soft at the center .  great wit , great art , and a great villain ( james woods as hades , lord of the underworld and local lounge act ) can't quite stifle the yawns induced by a bland hero , his colorfully monotonous sidekick ( danny devito as the satyrical trainer phil ) , and a largely unremarkable soundtrack .   ( none of the alan menken/david zippel tunes are particular- ly noteworthy .  some lack lyrical snap .  others need more memorable melodies .  boring ballads we expect , but boring production numbers , too ? )  so , hercules is a bit of a long sit , but you won't stay bored .  the highlights include a nifty round of animated action ( herc battling a cgi hydra ) , a steady stream of anachronisms ( " somebody call ix-i-i " ) and pop references ( " let's get ready to rumble ! " ) a la aladdin , and several long-overdue jabs at the mouse's marketing and merchandising depart- ments .  while not as rock-solid as hunchback , it's a still a new world of improvement over pocohontas .  directed by ron clements and john musker , with voice credits including tate donovan , susan egan , bob goldthwait , matt frewer , samantha eggar , paul shaffer , and , as lighting bolt zeus , rip torn , who's having a very good summer , also appearing in trial and error and men in black . 
neg@ you know that a movie has issues when most everyone in the audience comes out laughing . . . and  it's not a comedy !  and what a strange career path for director chuck russell .  he starts his career off with a decent take on the " nightmare on elm street " series with his debut as director on installment number three .  he follows that up with the blob the very next year , but waits another six years to do his next piece , a little film called the mask starring jim carrey , and then one more star vehicle in eraser two years after that .  so then he thought , " let me wait another five years , get a weak script jammed with cliches and hope that jimmy smits and kim basinger could pull it out of its ashes " ? ! ?  strange dude and one crappy flick .  plot : a six-year old girl is believed to be some kind of mysterious prophet sent down from god .  a satanic cult wants the girl to switch over to their side , while the girl's aunt wants to . . . well ,  save her from those damn devil worshippers !  enter one occult expert agent , plenty of bobo cops and lots of nuns praying , and you've just about got the gist of things here .  critique : with plot holes the size of my ass , this movie barely squeezes any sense out of its clich ? -ridden plot , with wasted talent , cheezy effects , bad dialogue and unintentional laughs to boot .  what's good about this movie ?  well , rufus sewell is pretty fun to watch as the head of a creepy runaway children's shelter/satanist supreme , with seriously wicked eyes and just enough ham in his performance to go with all of the cheese lying around .  the little girl is also pretty good but unfortunately her character doesn't really do all that much .  and believe it or not , i was actually enjoying some of the film's first half hour , which starts off with some promise , but not before bonehead moves after bonehead moves from our protagonist , basinger , just drown the film's entire basis of believability .  for some reason , it takes her more time than anyone to figure out that her niece is gifted , and even longer to figure out that every move that she makes . . . is  a dumb one !  add that to the entire police force of incompetents , save for jimmy smits ( whose talent agent advised him that playing the exact same cop character from nypd blue would be a good career move ?  at least change the clothes , jimmy ! ) , zero scares , zero thrills and even less actual drama , and you've got yourself a pretty bad movie .  and why would respected actors like christina ricci and ian holm take bit parts in this movie ?  did they owe the director a favor or something ?  together , they barely have five minutes of screen time , but i suppose that ricci's hospital room scene might be worth a look for some of you horn-dogs .  the worst part about this movie is its hilariously unbelievable ending , which features police officers coming up with the brilliant idea of " sneaking up " on a man's house , who they know to be guilty of a crime !  uuuhmm . . . how's  about knocking on the door and arresting his sorry ass , officers ? !  anyway , i don't usually inscribe spoilers in my reviews but the stupidity of some of these characters is just too difficult to describe without validating it with solid idiotic proof ( and there was plenty to go around ) .  and did basinger lose some of her acting " talent " during her hiatus from the profession after her 1997 oscar win ?  difficult to say if it was her lines that were really bad , or if she just delivered them poorly .  either way , little originality , very obvious computer effects , little thrills , little drama and very little entertainment value , certainly bestow the honor of one of the worst movies of the summer upon this film .  but if you really don't mind a rehashed gobbledygook of various satanic and " kid " -based thrillers , and enjoy watching films that don't bring anything new to the table . . . well ,  drink some beers , smoke some beans and rent this video , because it may just be one of the funnier thrillers of the year . 
pos@ `strange days' chronicles the last two days of 1999 in los angeles .  as the locals gear up for the new millenium , lenny nero ( ralph fiennes ) goes about his business of peddling erotic memory clips .  he pines for his ex-girlfriend , faith ( juliette lewis ) , not noticing that another friend , mace ( angela bassett ) really cares for him .  this film features good performances , impressive film-making technique and breath-taking crowd scenes .  director kathryn bigelow knows her stuff and does not hesitate to use it .  but as a whole , this is an unsatisfying movie .  the problem is that the writers , james cameron and jay cocks , were too ambitious , aiming for a film with social relevance , thrills , and drama .  not that ambitious film-making should be discouraged ; just that when it fails to achieve its goals , it fails badly and obviously .  the film just ends up preachy , unexciting and uninvolving . 
neg@ it's almost amusing to watch 21-year old christina ricci get drastically overshadowed in sally potter's follow-up to 1997's the tango lesson , the man who cried .  the gen-y actress , with her cold stare and big , black eyes , has appeared in an impressive range of films ; but she doesn't even come close to being the bold heroine the film , set against the historical backdrop of world war 2 , requires her to be .  ricci , whose character is shockingly silent and blank , showing only the occasional smile or hint of concern , shares most of her scenes with the astounding cate blanchett : quite an amusing sight to behold .  blanchett's lola , a paris dwelling dancer who befriends the aspiring singer suzie , is bold , interesting and layered ? everything our heroine lacks .  co-star of the upcoming lord of the rings trilogy , blanchett has a good seven inches on ricci , sports twice the makeup and dons a flashy wardrobe .  the actress inhabits the role ? as she always so remarkably does ? with a fervor and life that makes you want her to hold the screen as the film's lead rather than her dull companion .  important historical events involving hitler and his nazis scatter themselves across the film ; these landmarks serve as the film's little conflict .  obviously , the tables are turned in the life of suzie by these events , whose jewish origin is unknown among her parisian colleagues .  the man who cried has many aspirations , none of which come full circle by the film's close .  there are forced messages here and there : " go forward ; always go forward , " lola preaches to suzie ; there's romance between suzie and a fellow target of hitler's nazis , the gypsy cesar ( johnny depp , who , like ricci , barely gets to speak ) ; lola struggles with her character that desires above all things wealth and men who have it ; and at the core of all these devices lies suzie's desire to travel to america , where her father journeyed after leaving her and her mother years ago .  the film's main problem is that potter isn't skilled enough to tell the epic-sized story of suzie .  the time period's instability , the conflicting social classes , the prejudice against suzie from all those around her in her new life : serving as both writer and director , potter throws in some of each , but hardly an inch of depth is to be found in any .  by the time the sigh-inducing climax hits , the believability and complete absence of focus leave one ready to leave the theater .  the film's falling action is weirdly unsatisfying and unlikely ; are we really meant to believe any of this could happen ?  contrastingly , in its moving final scene , the man who cried strikes a note that is made effective in its ties to the emotional beginning of the film .  although it's apparent that potter can't grasp what she reaches , i'm puzzled as to why she reaches for so much in the first place .  ricci's suzie is meant to be the film's core : from the extended flashback at the film's beginning to the quickly drawn ending , everything seen in the film , in some way , relates to her .  so why then does potter spend so much time on subplots involving other individuals ?  the character of suzie is too present for the man who cried to work as an ensemble , but not present enough for the film to be ricci's .  the almost constant lack of flow and one-note tone with which potter depicts the man who cried are somewhat improved upon by sacha vierny's beautiful cinematography that renders the film's various locations wonderfully .  also worthy of note are lindy hemming's costumes that help to depict the area quite nicely .  and then there's the music .  from minute one to minute ninety-seven , there's hardly a moment when the wavering , skilled voice of an opera singer or the rhythms of the gypsy music don't undercut the action ; the notes stricken both overwhelm ( particularly john turturro , portraying fictional opera singer dante dominio , whose money and reputation catch lola's interest ) and accompany ( oftentimes , the perfect chords are captured to undermine the state of the film's characters and reinforce that state ) .  potter obviously cares much about each and every musical note ; unfortunately , the same effort isn't given towards ( almost ) everything else . 
pos@ do you want to know the truth about cats and dogs ?  do you ?  well , as this movie shows us , they make good companions but pale in comparison to the joy and fulfillment romantic relationships can bring .  unfortunately , there's a giant roadblock set up in our culture that only certain people can get through while the rest of us mill around outside , feeling sorry for ourselves .  a checkpoint beautiful kind of thing , and janeane garafolo's character abby relates to it well .  like a certain oversized teenage movie critic , she is intelligent and has a great sense of humor but strikes out with the opposite sex because she sees herself as physically unattractive , and the men seem to be backing her up on that .  meanwhile , her gorgeous neighbor nora ( uma thurman . . .  uma being the only woman's name worse than nora ) attracts men like flies .  as abby tells her , " you burp and they think it's cute .  you barf and they line up to hold your hair back . "  but nora's down on herself for being too shallow and superficial .  we all have our prwhen a man calls in to veterinarian abby's talk radio show wanting to know how to get the roller skates off his basset hound .   ( oh come on , any idiot knows how to handle that problem ! )  he likes her personality and professional demeanor and asks to meet her in person .  abby , though , knows her body doesn't match her personality and that she probably won't have a chance with him once he sees her .  so she gives him nora's body description and stands him up .  nora happens to be in the studio the next day when the dog man comes by and abby asks her for a big favor .  she goes along with the masquerade and the three of them head out for a night of fun , abby assuming the role of a goat cheese farmer named donna .  the dog man finds out even though this girl is beautiful , she's not quite as intellectual or confident about herself in person , but he doesn't suspect anything , realizing he's not living in a " three's company " episode .  the charade continues , with abby furthering the relationship over the phone ( including a decidedly unnecessary phone sex/masturbation sequence ) and nora furthering it in person , while eventually finding herself attracted to the dog man .  like sleepless in seattle , this comedy/romance is predictable all the way through , but we care enough about the characters that we root them on and will the romance to blossom .  the truth about cats and dogs isn't quite as entertaining as i was expecting it to be , but it handles well a theme i could identify with .  the thing is , i find janeane garafolo rather attractive .  she's no uma but i'm sure in real life she'd have no problems attracting men .  i , on the other hand , couldn't attract a man to save my life . . .  and am rather proud of that fact . 
neg@ there isn't much good about this movie .  not much i can say about the acting , directing , or writing that would make you consider seeing this movie .  so i'll get my one good comment out of the way , at least joel schuemacher ( batman & robin ) didn't direct it or it would be titled " technicolor city " .  in fact there is nothing colorful about this movie , its dark and depressingly gloomy right down to the bitter end .  the plot has a tendency to be interesting , but all that passes while your laughing at the ridiculous things thrown into what could have been a fascinating movie .  the plot is impossible to explain due to how senseless it gets , so i will just touch on the bare minimum .  john murdoch ( rufus sewell ) awakes in the bathtub of a cheap hotel , only to find out he has forgotten everything .  john must find out who he is before the " strangers " ( a . k . a .  mind erasing aliens ) find him and use him for their own evil conspiracy .  during the film some interesting points are raised about human individuality , and the existence of inherently evil people .  any of these points however are completely " erased " from your mind as you watch the actors stumble through the dreadful script .  as i mentioned earlier , nothing but the atmosphere is right in this film .  the acting is bland , and since there is virtually no character development no one seems to care .  the special effects are low budget and some even hilariously fake , a sign of a true " b-movie " .  the direction is poor and there is little continuity , not that you would expect it in a movie switching realities constantly .  lastly the script is weak and has no concept of reality , and doesn't deserve to have the word " science " in science-fiction .  if i haven't got my point across , i'll say it more plainly : this is a bad movie .  lets hope the next movie by alex " i wish i was tim burton " proyas is at least tolerable . 
pos@ if he doesn=92t watch out , mel gibson is in danger of being known as someone other than mad max .  of course there are still a few big guns in this film , but there=92s some accomplished acting too .  although gibson continues to shed his rough and gritty anti-hero skin as his career progresses , here he explores a new genre : the businessman as action hero .  in ron howard=92s latest film , gibson plays tom mullen , a gazillionaire airline owner whose son is snatched from the junior science fair by kidnappers .  mullen at first agrees to pay the ransom , but when things fall apart he rethinks the situation .  a veteran of numerous hard-nosed business negotiations , the tycoon realizes that in order to get his son back alive , he has to play his hand differently .  the casting is what puts this film over the top .  the trio of gibson , the kidnappers' mastermind ( gary sinise ) and fbi team leader ( delroy lindo ) play off of each other wonderfully .  sinise is perfect as the driven scheming sleezebag is right on the mark .  his speech to mullen over a walkie talkie about h . g . wells=92 morlocks and eloi reveal his vision of=  society . mullen and the other glitteratti frolic up on high while sinise and the other lowlifes dwell below , feeding off the unsuspecting .  gibson=92s character is an all-american hero with a few flaws .  his cowboy=  tactics tend to work , but they are also what got him into this situation to begin with .  in a round about way , if he weren=92t known as a man who i= s willing to buy his way out of trouble , his son wouldn=92t have been kidnapped .  as sinise says " you=92re a payer .  you did it once and now you=92re going to do it again . "  one of the nicest elements of this film is that most of the characters actually have personalities .  lindo calls home to talk to his kids , obviously shaken at working this case .  even the kidnappers are real people , arguing about the ultimate fate of sean mullen and feeding him candy bars .  gibson=92s break-down on the balcony of their penthouse apartment is especially effective .  it=92s one of the best filmed representations of a man=92s world falling apart that i=92ve seen .  it=92s not all perfect .  the shoot 'em upending , while emotionally satisfying seems tacked on to be just that rather than to provide a powerful resolution .  as well crafted as the scene is , we=92ve seen it before .  mullen=92s wife ( rene russo ) has several good moments , but occasionally just seems to be there .  while adequate , brawley nolte ( sean ) doesn=92t provide much to the film other than occupying space to build the story around .  but you=92ll ignore these problems as each minute of the movie builds on the previous one .  forget about the large coke , you won=92t want to leave for that five minute break an hour later . 
neg@ well i guess it's that time of the year again .  the one time of the year where movie craftors are exonerated from the need to even * try * writing a script that has more dialogue than explosions .  it's also the best time for the handful of existing bigtime hollywood mr action heroes to dust off their miniscule vocabularies , pull on their black vests and charge onto our screens tersely expirating what they hope will become memorable catchphrases .  in america they call this time " summer " and it happens once every year .  and maybe it's the exposure to all that nasty sun that does it , but in the process normally weak , insipid lines like " consider this a divorce , " " hasta la vista , baby , " and " you're the disease .  i'm the cure " actually do end up being repeated more often then the phrases from my book of biblical proverbs .  this is not entirely a bad thing , of course .  what am i talking about ?  i'm talking about the summer " blockbusters , " the " action thrillers , " the " this-obviously-cost-a-lot-so-you-know- everyone's-going-to-go " explosions , gas threats , flying saucers , and special effects .  in the rash of " my , what big guns you have , but wait !  mine are bigger " movies , there are also the usual boy-meets-fish-and-saves-environment movies ( or whale , whatever ) , and * this * year , the odd crop of " save-the-world-from-aliens-or-environment- threats " offerings .  i'm talking about the three batmans , the speeds , the terminators , etc . this year i'm talking about twister , independence day , the arrival , the rock , mission : impossible , and of course , eraser .  here in singapore , as our local movie critics like to whine , we seem to get the pick of the crop of " my explosion is more real-looking than yours " movies , but nothing else .  mission : impossible opened in our theatres almost as soon as it did in the us .  the same goes for eraser , which is unfortunate for arnold schwarzenegger because coming so soon after what time magazine recently called " mission : unavoidable " ( on account of its worldwide mega-advertising blitz ) , eraser seems like a cheaper , less thoughtful imitation .  that's saying a lot , because mi the movie was already a cheap , thoughtless imitation of its tv originator of the '60s/'70s .  in eraser , arnie is a us federal marshall who relocates trial witnesses whose testimonies place their lives in danger .  he does this by destroying all evidence of their present existence and re-situating them with new identities .  his new case is lee cullen , played by vanessa williams who , unlike all the other scumbags he's ever relocated , is " an actual , real life honest person . "  because she's so good , and has such nice legs , arnold spends the whole movie trying to protect her , and only uses the opening movie sequence to save robert pastorelli from * his * killers .  lee obtains evidence that the high-technology weapons company she works for is secretly selling sophisticated , black-market arms to people with foreign accents and stringy hair .  of course , as the formula goes , her revealing this information will destroy the system as we know it because heck , there are people in high places who will go down with this , because yes , this is the biggest conspiracy in the history of the world ( that is , america ) since watergate .  in protecting lee , arnold is framed by the mentor-turned-evil robert deguerin , nicely played by james caan , and ends up having to prove that he isn't the one killing the programme's witnesses in addition to making sure lee isn't accidentally torpedo-ed to death by the new , green guns his enemies all have .  it's around this time that people in the theatre with me starting humming the mission : impossible theme , because arnie's mission includes breaking into a high-security building to run a disk .  i guess i should tell you more about the particular gun everyone in this movie is so antsy about .  it's an electro-magnetic pulse gun thing which fires aluminium missiles , and which can see through walls .  it has some sort of x-ray vision , so its user can target the victim's heart even from great distances .  despite this , which i figure is a pretty cool feature in a gun ( though i'm certainly no expert ) , however , arnold , whose own heart is targeted a number of times , * never * goes flying 10 feet backwards with a two-foot missile through his chest like all the others who get shot by this gun .  instead he outruns and outsmarts his trackers each time , giving eery and ironic resonance to that terminator line that practically made him famous : " i'll be back . "  like everyone else in the theater , i left the movie feeling that the trailers had duped me , because they made me want to watch this movie voluntarily .  although there is a * lot * of violence in this movie , not to mention mutilation and some bloody tussles with alligators , i recommend this movie to most over-18s who need some therapeutic mindless action to get over the weirdness of fargo or the hangover effect of leaving las vegas .  review's rating system : * wait for the video .   * * a little creaky , but still better than staying at home with gotcha !   * * * pretty good , bring a friend .   * * * * amazing , potent stuff .   * * * * * perfection .  see it twice . 
pos@ trees lounge is the directoral debut from one of my favorite actors , steve buscemi .  he gave memorable performences in in the soup , fargo , and reservoir dogs .  now he tries his hand at writing , directing and acting all in the same flick .  the movie starts out awfully slow with tommy ( buscemi ) hanging around a local bar the " trees lounge " and him pestering his brother .  it's obvious he a loser .  but as he says " it's better i'm a loser and know i am , then being a loser and not thinking i am . "  well put .  the story starts to take off when his uncle dies , and tommy , not having a job , decides to drive an ice cream truck .  well , the movie starts to pick up with him finding a love interest in a 17 year old girl named debbie ( chloe sevigny ) and . . .  i liked this movie alot even though it did not reach my expectation .  after you've seen him in fargo and reservoir dogs , you know he is capable of a better performence .  i think his brother , michael , did an excellent job for his debut performence .  mr . buscemi is off to a good career as a director ! 
neg@ can you say " dated " ?  you can if you've seen rosemary's baby which , like the exorcist , was a thrilling horror film in its time but seems boring and laughable in the decades that have passed since its original release .   " mystery science theater 3000 " has skewered the bad films of the past , but let me tell you , it could do a number on the " good " ones too .  rosemary's baby stars mia farrow ( from the time she was actually good-looking ) as an innocent housewife and her not-so-innocent husband ( john cassavettes ) , an actor who takes an easy , albeit evil , road to success .  it all seems so harmless in the beginning .  mia and john move into an apartment where several past murders have been committed .   ( there's also a skull in the living room , but it's only for decoration . )  their elderly neighbors pop in for a housewarming .  all's well for about the first hour of this slow-moving film , until mia eats some of the neighbors' chocolate mousse and passes out .  when she comes to , she finds herself in a darkened room with a bunch of people yelling and dancing like savages and a big , evil man raping her -- a foreshadowing of her future life with woody allen .  it seems like a dream and , when she finds herself pregnant , she almost forgets about it .  and everyone's helping with the pregnancy .  the neighbors have some wonderful vitamin potions for her to drink , a good-luck charm for her to wear around her neck , and the name of an obstetrician who's been in the business 66 . 6  years .  meanwhile , mia begins having chronic stomach pains and losing a lot of weight .  before too long she looks just like the lead singer of the cranberries .  that's when you know your health's failing .  the only person in the movie who's the least bit suspicious of all this is an old friend ( maurice evans ) who calls mia up to give her the bad news -- and immediately falls into a coma .  by about the two-hour mark i felt the same way .  rosemary's baby is way too long , and leads up to a payoff that's about as boring and laughable as the rest of the movie .  i guess someone put a spell on this movie . 
pos@ apollo 13 is simply one of the most dramatic film this summer ( apart from swashbuckling braveheart ) .  director ( and former actor ) ron howard ( splash , backdraft , far & away ) , most noted for his dramatic film making , displays again his brilliance in creating drama and suspense in apollo 13 .  being the second largest box office hit in the us this summer ( with more than us$150 million in the states alone ) , this film is his most successful effort yet .  perhaps one of the most appealing feature of this film is the pool of talented actors such as tom hanks ( gump himself ) , kevin bacon ( footloose , tremors , a few good men etc . ) , gary sinise ( forrest gump ) , bill paxton ( aliens , true lies , boxing helena ) and ed harris ( the abyss , just cause ) . .  all of whom gave good performances in their respective roles .  apollo 13 was the second worst accident ever to occur in the history of us spaceflight ( the worst being the challenger accident ) .  jim lovell ( hanks ) , the mission commander , together with his crew , fred haise ( paxton ) and last minute replacement tom swigert ( bacon ) are put to the ultimate test when part of their command module explodes on the third day of the mission , more than three quarters way to the moon .  suspense and drama ensue as the three men are left in space with their spaceship out of control and the problem of surviving the journey home . . .  if they ever reach it .  ed harris and gary sinise who play , respectively , the man in charge of the entire mission control and the astronaut who was supposed to fly but was diagnosed with measles , both delve into their roles superbly .  audiences are shown the chaotic and worrisome state of the entire ground control crew , as they frantically attempt to come up with ideas on how to save the astronauts from hurtling into space .  also , there are quite a number of real news footages which were broadcast during the accident which took the entire us nation into 5 days of drama in 1970 .  the special effects by digital domain are up to standard and the music suits the suspense and drama very well , thanks to film-music maestro james horner .  watch out for the launching sequence , it is simply one of the most breathtaking scenes of the film .  a bad point though : apollo 13 features much technical jargon and many physics concepts in its script .  those who consider themselves `scientifically illiterate' might have a slight problem understanding what caused this and what caused that during the course of the show .  this is however , just a minor point , just forget all those technical bullshit and immerse yourselves into the drama and suspense throughout the film .  you should enjoy it . 
neg@ maybe this mission should have been scrubbed  mission to mars  a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman  there's a world of difference between artists and technicians .  the artist has a vision to create something new .  he may not do it well , it might be sloppy , but it's something you've never seen before .  a good technician can make it look good , but without direction from his own inner artist or someone else , it's going to be just a xerox .  obviously successful films need both skills .  brian de palma is a masterful technician .  he's spent his career copying others , most notably hitchcock .  he usually knows exactly what to do to make a scene work , but only because he has learned it by rote .  aside from rare flashes of originality , his films are often soul-dead .  in de palma's latest , he turns his attention to stanley kubrick .  to tell the truth , i enjoyed portions of this movie , but i liked it a lot better over 30 years ago when it was called " 2001 " .  i enjoyed it even more when it was titled " close encounters " .  nasa has set its sights for mars .  when the first crew meets with disaster , a rescue mission is sent to the red planet .  they don't do so well either , but eventually meet up the lone surviving astronaut-gone-rasta and solve the mysteries of the universe .  and it's all so boring .  there are so many scenes that just don't work , it's difficult to begin .  when the first crew is a few feet away from a raging massive upside-down martian tornado ( which looks remarkably like a sandworm from " dune " ) destroying everything in its path , they just hang out watching .  error .  the most interesting character ( and that's not saying much ) is killed off .  error .  the alien is laughable .  error .  the rest of the characters are the dullest people imaginable .  error .  there's some nice eyecandy .  the face on mars , which turns out to be a giant metal thai buddha head , looks cool .  a three-dimensional holographic planetarium is more fun to watch than anything at disney world .  maneuvering in space suits outside the ship seems realistic .  but there's so much more that feels as if we've been there before .  from " 2001 " , there's the rotating space station , the blinding white room .  >from " close encounters " , they solve a sound puzzle and play it to the aliens .  the list goes on .  the actors are mostly mobile wooden statues .  even gary sinise and tim robbins can't muster enough emotion to convince us they are breathing .  no one seems to care about anything that happens .  you won't either .  the absolutely worst sin is the blatant product placement as dr . pepper , with a 20 foot tall logo , saves the day .  they should save the commercials for those insipid bits before the film . 
pos@ my fellow americans is a movie that at first glance looks to have little substance ( or a movie that we've all seen a million times ) , two lifetime rivals thrown together and then the fun begins .  this is exactly what happened in this movie , but fortunately , they managed to do it in an interesting and funny way .  the movie starts with a quick ( and i do mean quick ) glance of two presidents russell kramer ( jack lemmon ) and matt douglas ( james garner ) .  william haney ( dan aykroyd ) and ted matthews ( john heard ) are the new president and vice president .  there is a scandal that arises involving a kickback from a contractor and haney is positive that he buried that years ago .  he finds a scapegoat in kramer and now everyone wants kramer and douglas dead .  this movie was exceptional for many reasons .  one being that they found people ( lemmon and garner ) that have good chemisty together .  they worked very well as a unit and they mirrored each other perfectly , one being a ladies man and one being the old man ( i'll let you fiqure which is which ) .  also , they found people that know their parts as govenment officials well .  it seemed to me that garner played almost exactly the same role that he played in the distinquished gentleman ( except then he was a congressman ) .  experience counts for a lot ! ! 
neg@ note : some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers .  be forewarned .  i was incredulous when i first heard that mgm was planning a sequel to their 1995 science-fiction flick species .  squandering an intriguing premise , the original film turned out to be a dreadful mess , widely disliked by both audiences and critics alike -- and nonetheless still somehow succeeded in becoming a financial success , raking in over $60 million domestic during the competitive summer season despite a distinct lack of star power in its cast ( ben kingsley's a splendid actor , but a marquee name he ain't ) .  miraculously dodging the bullet with the first film , i doubted that they'd dare tempt fate and go for another round .  so here comes species ii , with a new creative team ( director peter medak and screenwriter chris brancato step in for roger donaldson and dennis feldman , respectively ) that fails to improve the series one iota -- like its predecessor , species ii fails to capitalize on a potentially promising kernel and instead runs the gamut from ridiculously silly to unmitigatedly stupid .  the film follows the exploits of a young man , patrick ross ( justin lazard ) , whose sole focus is on cruising along the streets in order to pick up women , loitering in strip clubs , and generally trying to bed as many different ladies as he possibly can .  in other words , patrick is like a lot of guys ; these activities could describe the everyday routines of a huge percentage of men his age , but there's a catch -- he's an astronaut who recently returned from a seemingly successful mission to mars , and who's now infected with alien dna .  patrick's overriding compulsion : to mate and sire countless numbers of gooey little alien offspring .  and when he becomes aware of eve ( natasha henstridge ) , a half-human , half-alien clone of the monster from the first film being studied in a government lab , patrick's primary focus turns to her -- " if these two were to mate , the resulting pure strain of offspring would be unstoppable " warns dr . laura baker ( marg helgenberger , gamely reprising her role ) with admirable conviction .  species ii opens with the mars mission , and the space scenes are remarkably unconvincing and hokey-looking , even splicing back to dated , grainy footage of actual spacecraft activities -- they really skimped on production values this time around .  however , this all looks positively inspired when compared to the first appearance of the evil alien goo which ultimately infests patrick ; watching as it slinks around the command module of the spaceship , any question as to whether or not this is a cheesy b-movie is quickly answered .  mr . brancato's original screenplay is filled with outrageous lines which often leaves the audience in stitches .  like the first film ( and perhaps in homage to it ) , there's a real penchant for dialogue which underlines the obvious .  last time around featured the hootworthy line uttered by forest whitaker's psychic empath character upon entering a bloodsoaked room -- " something bad happened here . "  this time , laura gets to stand over a fresh , shredded corpse with its entails ripped out and mutter " this is awful . "  and she's not even empathic !  and when a psychotically horny patrick accosts a supermarket shopper and drags her kicking and screaming behind the building in a woefully-paced suspense sequence , eve , who's telepathically linked to her alien/human-hybrid counterpart ( whatever ) , helpfully tells our alien-hunting protagonists , " he's going to rape her . "  while species ii is often unintentionally hilarious , at least it occasionally demonstrates a sense of humour of its own .  there's an amusing , tongue-in-cheek bit of product placement ( which doesn't really make much sense , but i appreciated the sentiment ) , as well as some supermarket-related hijinx ( " he's in aisle 1 ! "  informs eve ) .  if the film maintained this sort of light-hearted tone , it would have been much more charming and enjoyable to watch , but , to its detriment , it instead takes its silly plot far too seriously and barrels along to a bloody , effects-ladened anticlimactic conclusion .  much of the film fails to make a whole lot of sense , and there are such gaping plot holes that it's terribly difficult to contain any suspension of disbelief .  the implausibilities are endless : what about the toxic bomb in eve's brain ?  why are the guards armed with guns when they already know firearms are ineffectual ?  my favourite was the slow-motion sequence in the film where eve , sporting superhuman strength , is shown tossing aside guards who are attempting to contain her with what look like body blocks .  this is the sort of movie which leaves you holding your head in amazed disbelief , incredulous that it's being foisted upon the public .  returning headlines michael madsen ( who reprises tough guy press lennox ) and ms . helgenberger do what they can with this goofy screenplay , but there's realistically only so much one can do with this script as a basis .  mykelti williamson ( portraying astronaut dennis gamble ) churns out an all-too-familiar spin on a generic brash-mouthed character , and fine character actors george dzundza ( playing colonel burgess and looking ridiculous in the process ) and james cromwell ( patrick's neglectful father , senator ross ) are utterly wasted in the film .  mr . lazard gives his character an appropriately shifty-eyed look , while returning vixen ms . henstridge is actually given the opportunity to act in one scene ( and acquits herself nicely ) , but is mostly relegated to reprising her familiar role of parading about in skimpy clothing ( or none at all ) .  ms . henstridge recently commented on how some female audiences have expressed appreciation for her character in the first entry of the species series , claiming that " she's so empowered . "  a lethal half-alien in heat who dispatches of her sexual partners in grotesque fashion -- now * that's * what i call empowerment . 
pos@ bruce willis is a type-casted actor .  in die hard , he played john mcclaine , a rough and tough chicago cop who gets caught in the wrong place at the wrong time .  again , in pulp fiction , as butch coolidge , an over-the-hill boxer , he steps on the wrong guys toes .  in luc besson's the fifth element , willis plays korben dallas , a new york cabby who takes in the wrong passenger at the worst possible time .  a stylish science fiction epic , the fifth element's complex plot begins right away , in the deserts of egypt ( think stargate ) in 1914 .  an enormous spacecraft lands above a pyramid where the " 5 elements " are stored and takes them away , vowing to return them when the evil comes back .  cut to present day , which is our future .  the year is 2023 , and new york is the city .  the only basic differences between besson's futuristic depiction and the real life new york is that the smog is thicker , the buildings are higher , and the traffic floats !  anyway , the " evil " comes back as a ball of fire to wreak havoc on the fair citizens of the earth , so back come the tortoise-like aliens to return the " 5 elements " to earth , in order to defend themselves against the " evil . "  in the process , however , the ship is intercepted by 2 fighter pods and is destroyed before landing .  when officials arrive at the site , all that remains is a hand .  what can you do with a hand ?  hey , its the 21st century here-dna reconstruction !  this hand turns out to belong to a beautiful , but mysterious woman named leeloo ( milla jovovich , dazed and confused ) .  she escapes and , attempting to escape the police by swan diving off of an enormous skyscraper and crashing through the roof of korben's floating cab .  it's love at first site , as korben and leeloo elude the lazy-as-always cops .  when leeloo begins mumbling about a cornelius ( ian holm , night falls on manhattan ) , korben searches the " yellow pages " and delivers her to the door of the good reverend , the only man who knows of her background and duties .  now , korben , leeloo , and cornelius must journey to a foreign planet to board a cruise ship ( special effects were spectacular here ) to find the remaining four elements .  it is here , where they discover that they have been followed by the evil jean-baptiste emmanuel zorg ( gary oldman , murder in the first ) .  he , too , wants possession of the elements , as do a group of pig-like warriors ( think the gamorreans in return of the jedi ) .  in a spectacular ending , with time running out , leeloo is faced with a problem-why should she save a people who live to destroy each other ?  the question is a good one , and one that could be pondered .  but enough of that .  when korben points out his love for her , leeloo is inclined to become the " 5th element " and save the world from total destruction .  the fifth element features good performances by willis and holm , an excellent portrayal of a comedic villain ( who reminded me a lot of jack nicholson's the joker in batman ) by one of the masters of villainy , oldman , and a heartfelt offering by relative newcomer jovovich .  the supporting cast , which includes brion james ( tango & cash ) , tim " tiny " lester ( no holds barred ) , luke perry ( buffy the vampire slayer ) , and chris tucker ( friday ) , added a comedic effect to the film .  although besson's the fifth element can be criticized for the outlandish use of cliches , it is a solid motion picture with a definite point .  some other directors ( like anaconda's luis llosa ) should take a lesson from this guy-using ideas from epic motion pictures the right way .  ideas from star wars and stargate were utilized for the improvement of this film .  sci-fi fan or not , any movie-lover should see this wonderfully stylish motion picture .   , 
neg@ running time approximately 1hr 40mins  reviewed by jack choo  rating :  the movie starts with a rather se7en-ish opening sequence , rather cool and sets the mood for things to come .  the story propels the audience into a neo-reality ; somewhat very close to conscious reality but laced with weird tinges of blue and red .  existenz is actually the name of a new virtual-reality game .  supposedly , vr games are highly popular as is considered a legal-drug in this neo-reality .   * * * * ( leigh ) is the ultimate game creator and introduces her ultimate game-experience in the form of existenz .  players are required to have bio-ports embedded in their spine , which plugs to a game-pod in order to enjoy the immersive experience .  during a secretive beta-testing-cum-teaser meeting for this new game , an assassination attempt on * * * life occurs and she runs off with fellow bodyguard * * * ( law ) .   * * * is more of a realists than anything else , afraid that he'll lose reality if he begin to play these games but * * * requires his help to immerse together with her into existenz to check if the program is still functioning properly after the assassination attempt .  as they soon discover , they are transported between realities within existenz uncovering more than they initially expected .  existenz has all the cronenberg-gore that is expected of him .  even so , this film is no-where near his cult classics such as videodrome or scanners .  not even half as suspenseful as the commercially successful the fly .  existenz can probably be looked upon as his 90's version of videodrome , even so , it is a poor follow-up .  while in most of his famed films , his penchant for gore always hit the right note with theme of the film and plot .  in existenz , the gory sequences are no more attached to spirit of the film and seem to be an act of over-indulgence than anything else .  jennifer jason leigh and jude law , both commendable actors , looked aloof and miss-directed throughout the entire film .  the scripting and acting barely pulls the film out of the b-grade category .  it was obvious that cronenberg worked on a really tight-budget and it seems that he handled that pretty well in the production design and values created for this film ( the opening sequence , though , probably formed a considerable portion of the budget ! )  which is actually quite good .  existenz is too predictable and cliched in these times .  10 years ago , it would have been another classic for cronenberg .  cronenberg fans however , ( those people who enjoy seeing friends getting queasy over mutilation on film ) should not give this film a miss as some form of appreciation can still be offered by you . 
pos@ contact is a nobly intentioned but ultimately unsatisfying adaptation of carl sagan's only novel .  it details the circumstances surrounding the first clear sign of intelligent life in outer space and their effects on the life of a young and idealistic radio astronomer named ellie arroway ( jodie foster ) .  we first meet ellie at a giant radio telescope in puerto rico , where she is part of the seti ( search for extraterrestrial intelligence ) project .  her research is quickly killed , however , by her highly political david drumlin ( tom skerrit ) , who disdains " pure research " in favor of science with " commercial applications .  she goes in search of private funding and is turned down at every step until she pitches her project to a corporation run by the mysterious s . r .  hadden ( john hurt ) .  then , with that money just about to finally dry up , ellie is sitting out in the desert near the very large array in new mexico when she hears over her headphones a very powerful pulsing radio signal .  in the movie's most exciting and believable sequence , ellie and her coworkers determine that the signal has to be coming from the star vega .  at first the signal appears to be just sequences of prime numbers , then it turns out to be a tv signal of the berlin olympics bounced back to earth from 50 years before .  further decoding , with hadden's help , reveals another layer to message , containing detailed plans for a massive and complex machine .  it appears that the machine is a transport that will allow one person to travel to the aliens' home world .  of course , the big question becomes " who gets to ride it ? "   ( right after " who's gonna pay for this thing ? " ) .  to boil it down , ellie gets denied the seat in the machine because she bluntly acknowledges her atheism , while drumlin gets to go because he rather insincerely professes his deep religious faith .  drumlin is killed and the machine destroyed when religious fanatics bomb the launch platform ( apparently to keep " godless science " from talking to god , or something like that ) .  then hadden reappears with startling news .  he has secretly constructed a second machine off the coast of japan and has reserved the ride for ellie , in whom he has taken a rather paternal interest .  ellie boards the machine and is transported through some kind of wormhole to a dream-like place that looks a lot like waikiki beach before they built the hotels , where she meets the aliens who take the form of her late father ( david morse ) .  when she returns home , no one believes her .  she was not even gone for one second , they say , even though she remembers being gone for 18 hours .  her story is officially discredited , although believed by a large segment of the public ( who don't even have to know that her computer records of the trip contain nothing but static .   .   .  eighteen hours worth of static ) .  there is a lot to like about contact so i will highlight those points first .  ellie arroway is a well-rounded character portrayed by one of the best actresses currently working .  neither the character nor the performance has the same depth as clarice starling in silence of the lambs , but that's a tough standard to meet .  ellie is interesting in that she is woman defined by a strange array of father figures .  her real father is an idealized movie dad who does nothing in the film but love his daughter unconditionally .  drumlin comes across as a distant stepfather to whom ellie is like an irritating teenager who wants to use his toys to get into trouble .  hadden obviously has affection for ellie , but in the end he seems to see her as his creation , nothing more than his favorite piece on the chess board .  even palmer joss ( matthew mcconaughey ) , ellie's love interest , takes a paternalistic interest in ellie , seeing her as a misguided person who needs protection from her own impulses .  the film is technically impressive , especially in the scenes where the message is first received and during the destruction of the first machine .  the part of the film dealing with the message has the best presentation of real science in a film since the andromeda strain .  the film falls apart when dealing with its central theme , the dichotomy between science and religion .  this is a very real debate but contact boils it down to a simplistic level that never really touches on the actual issues involved .  the film presents science pretty well ( until the end ) so the real problem stems from it presentation of religious faith .  religious people are presented as shallow caricatures .  rob lowe plays a ralph reed clone named richard rank ( very subtle , guys ) , the voice of the religious right .  another religious figure is the fanatic who blows up the first machine ( jake busey ) .  the only really fleshed-out religious person , palmer joss , is supposed to be a minister of some sort , but his actual faith is left pretty vague .  i can't even say for certain that he was supposed to be a christian .  all we know is that he dropped out of the seminary and obviously has no qualms about pre-marital sex .  the film drops the science ball at the very end , when ellie appears to assert that there are some things even scientists must take on faith .  in a day and age when the theory of evolution is denounced by the religion right as an atheist " religious " doctrine , this is exactly the wrong message to send .  in a movie dealing with issues of science and faith , the last thing you want your scientist character to do is abandon the principle of scientific skepticism .  what ellie should have said was , " you shouldn't believe me .  not without evidence , and i don't have the evidence .  i know what happened but you shouldn't take my word alone . "  that is the voice of science speaking .  the character of david drumlin is another problem with this film .  his attitudes toward pure research project seem out of place for a person in his position .  also , his profession of " faith " before the selection committee is so nakedly and transparently insincere that only a pack of idiots should have fallen for it .  the last big problem is with the use of real personalities in various roles .  the media figures , such as bernard shaw and jay leno aren't so bad , in as much as their participation was voluntary .  the use of bill clinton , however , should give anyone pause .  first of all , lifting the image of a sitting head of state and inserting him into a fictional story line , thus using his words outside of the context in which they were spoken , is just plain creepy .  also , using the real president places this film between 1993 and 2001 , forever dating it .  people watching this film in the future will say , " hey , this never took place during clinton's term . "  this bit of unreality will jar people out of their suspension of disbelief .  also , the level of technology portrayed in the film is too advanced to take place before the first decade of the next century .  better to have had a fictitious president played by an actor or no president at all .  the film does raise an interesting question , although it never develops it in a satisfying way .  if we were picking an emissary to send to an alien culture , would an atheist be automatically disqualified just because ninety percent of the population of the world professes a belief in god , or at least some form of supernatural creator ?  personally , i would hope not , since religion is basically an opinion , a form of ideology .  i would not want any form of ideological test for such an import task . 
neg@  " it was not scary . "  these are the first words that came to mind after it was over .  when a movie is called _vampires_ , " not scary " aren't words that should be associated with it .  but that wasn't my only gripe .  john carpenter is a name associated with cutting-edge cinema , as in the intense scares of _halloween_ , _the thing_ and _the prince of darkness_ , or the offbeat action of _they live_ and _escape from new york_ .  unfortunately , the only thing that is cutting edge about _vampires_ is the level of boredom the movie is able to reach .  with an anemic plot and not-quite-kosher special effects , _john carpenter's vampires_ has barely enough substance to slake the thirst of even the least discerning genre fan .  the film is at first concerned with a group of roaming vampire slayers , led by james woods , of all people .  like some sort of holy a-team ( they even have their own souped-up van ) , the bunch invade and wipe out a nest of vampires in a new mexico shack .  their method is amusingly innovative : the blood-suckers are reeled out with harpoons so they can flare up in the sun like matchsticks .  to commemorate their victory , the loutish band decorates a motel room with hookers and parties the night away .  their celebration is short-lived , however , as a master vampire named valek ambushes and single-handedly destroys most of the team .  woods' jack crow and buddy montoya ( daniel baldwin ) escape with their lives , along with a woman named katrina ( sheryl lee ) .  although the woman has been bitten , montoya and crow decide to keep katrina for her psychic link to the master vampire .  the rest of the movie is concerned with the boys' hunt for valek ( thomas ian griffith ) , a freaky marilyn manson-type who's on a mission that dates back 600 years .  along the way they pick up a priest named guiteau ( tim guinee ) , a character who serves pretty much the same purpose as the jittery cpl .  upham in _saving private ryan_ .  some stuff happens in the middle of the movie , but i can't remember most of it , because i often found a twitching hair in the corner of the frame more interesting than what was happening on screen .  _vampires_ finally starts to pick up about 90 minutes into the mix , as crow , guiteau , and montoya assault an abandoned prison-turned vampire nest .  only then does the film begin to even resemble a carpenter flick .  but it's too little too late .  we get the inevitable final confrontation , but it seems tacked on and rather anti-climactic ( come on , we're dealing with _the_ master vampire here ! )  interestingly , last summer's vampire actioner _blade_ was derived from a comic book , and _vampires_ from a novel , yet the latter seems more steeped in campy cheesiness than the former , a more deliberate superhero flick .  woods' jack crow spouts glib off-the-cuff one-liners and strolls away from exploding buildings with that oh-so-cool stride .  and his motive for killing vampires ?  take a wild guess .   ( hint : a ______ killed his _____ when he was just a _____ . )  at least _blade_ had decent action and slick stylishness .  _vampires_ lacks even cheap thrills to mask its gossamer-thin plot .  to make up for this , the movie resorts to other " shocks , " such as its generally condescending attitude towards women ( crow slaps them around for the fun of it ) and an overplayed contempt for religion ( crow teases guiteau incessantly about whether his vow of celibacy has made him prone to " getting woodies . " )  it can be argued that maybe i wanted too much from this movie .  if not scary and gory , i wanted tense , relentless , and exhausting .  _john carpenter's vampires_ is none of these .  i can only recommended it for the hardcore carpenter fan .  for the rest of you looking for a good scare , beware : _vampires_ is a film with no teeth . 
pos@ written by john grisham and robert altman ( as al hayes )  directed by robert altman  some time ago , a young director was given the opportunity to direct the screen version of a popular novel .  the novel was a summer smash , topping best-seller lists across the country and already drawing speculation as to which popular actors of the day might play the leads .  the only problem : the novel wasn't very good .  it was far more pulp than pulitzer .  but the director realized that , no matter how pedestrian the prose , this book really grabbed people - that the author , while not a great writer , was a fantastic storyteller .  so he took on the project , convinced he could make something happen on screen .  the director ?  francis ford coppola .  the book , of course , was mario puzo's the godfather .  the rest , as they say in showbiz , was history .  by bringing up the godfather , i don't mean to suggest that robert altman's the gingerbread man is destined for that level of greatness .  but the parallel does suggest that it is possible to create great cinema from questionable source material .  can you get any more questionable than john grisham ?  depends on whom you ask .  but there's no question that grisham's work grabs people .  like puzo , grisham is a better storyteller than a writer - unlike fellow hack michael crichton , who is a good idea man but who can't tell a well-constructed story from a can of spam .  so something in grisham's unpublished story of a cocky savannah lawyer who gets involved in a deadly family squabble drew the attention of robert altman , who at 73 years old remains one of america's greatest living filmmakers .  the result is a gripping thriller that , while falling short of classic cinema , deserves its place in the altman canon .  >from its opening shot to the closing credits , the gingerbread man is permeated with a sense of dread , with a fear of the natural destructive forces of the universe .  this terrific sense of mood is a classic altman touch .  witness said opening shot : we see an aerial view of coastal georgia with its writhing , undulating landscape while the soundtrack grumbles ominously in our ear .  we roll over the hills into the town of savannah , then zoom in close on a red sports car speeding over a bridge while its driver chatters oblivious on his cell phone .  right away we know that the driver of that car is in for a few surprises .  pay attention , boys and girls - this shot was not conceived by john grisham , but by altman .  this is what a great director can do for questionable source material .  the sports car belongs to rick magruder ( kenneth branagh ) , the aforementioned hotshot attorney who specializes in police brutality cases .  magruder has just won a high profile case and celebrates that night with a catered party at his office .  outside after the party he meets one of the waitresses , mallory doss ( embeth davidzt ) , just as she realizes her car has been stolen .  driven by southern chivalry , a driving rainstorm and his unspoken attraction to the fragile waitress , magruder offers her a ride home .  there he learns more about mallory's life than he bargained for .  her car was stolen by her schizophrenic father dixon ( robert duvall ) , a ted kyzynski-style whacko who has been stalking and terrorizing his own daughter .  magruder , perhaps influenced by mallory's decision to strip off her wet clothes in front of him , is sympathetic to her plight , and offers to help her get her father committed - right after he sleeps with her , of course .  this simple offer of help leads magruder down a dangerous path with a black end .  he succeeds in having dixon incarcerated in a mental hospital , and for a moment all appears well .  but then dixon's crack team of homeless commandos bust him out of the lockup - and suddenly magruder finds himself , mallory and his own children in danger .  the cops won't lift a finger to help a liberal attorney .  his only allies are his faithful assistant lois ( daryl hannah ) and his bumbling private-eye sidekick clyde ( robert downey jr ) .  if this predicament wasn't bad enough , hurricane geraldo is bearing down on savannah and throwing the world into chaos .  altman may provide the atmosphere , but branagh's performance holds the gingerbread man together .  an accomplished actor when he isn't directing himself in vanity productions , branagh does a fine job of making rick a sympathetic hero while casting doubt upon his motives .  is his offer of help to mallory an act of kindness , or of egotism ?  magruder is so sure of his place in the world that he never considers that he has bitten off more than he can chew until he has to swallow it - and by then it's too late .  as the plot unfolds , magruder learns that none of us are as secure as we think we are .  and life is never so bad that it can't get worse .  if you're familiar with altman's work , you'll recognize several of his signature techniques .  characters are not introduced in establishing shots , but rather are allowed to wander in the background of scenes until their importance becomes apparent .  crucial scenes are shot from the outside through windows , making the audience unwitting voyeurs of the action .  dialog overlaps and the actors seem to slip naturally into an improvisational style .  and of course there's my favorite altman technique - the obligatory nude actress shot .  thanks to altman , here are some of the actresses i've had the pleasure of seeing naked : sally kellerman , julianne moore , madeline stowe , even frances mcdormand .  and now i can add embeth davidtz , who looks quite healthy in the altogether .  the naked actress shot has become as ubiquitous to the altman film as the director cameo was to the hitchcock film .  is it old-school sexism , or a clever in-joke ?  you be the judge .  but back to the picture at hand .  in the hands of a mere mortal , the gingerbread man would have been a routine thriller , no better or worse than the countless others we've all endured .  in the hands of a master like altman , it becomes an exercise in existential doom , in its own way far more successful than scorsese's cape fear remake , which tried for the same result .  what may prevent it from enduring with altman's greatest work is a weak third act - in fact , there really is no third act in grisham's story , so it appears that altman had to throw in the hurricane just to jazz things up .  but there are true moments of riveting suspense , and great performances by branagh , davidzt and downey jr - more than enough to see you through .  that polygram so hated this picture that they tried to steal final cut from altman , and then buried the marketing campaign when he won it back , should tell you how utterly clueless of quality most studios are .  they probably wanted it to look more like a time to kill .  and that , my friends , should make you very afraid . 
neg@ silly performances and some huge gaps in logic mar an otherwise interesting tale of an eclectic group of people stranded at " the last stop cafe and motel " due to heavy snowfall .  one of the stranded is a colorado state highway patrolman ( adam beach ) who discovers a murder scene and a bag full of cash from a recent bank robbery .  someone amongst the group of strangers is a bank robber and a murderer , but is it the same person or are there multiple criminals ?  adam beach unfortunately was the wrong choice for the lead in this film .  he doesn't play the role with enough seriousness to be believable or enough goofiness for it to be funny .  his performance is stuck somewhere in the middle , and this film really needed it to be on one side or the other .  rose mcgowan is cold and unpleasant to the eye as always , and jurgen prochnow . . .  what on earth is he doing in this ?  best performance comes from william s . taylor as a cheesy ( yet still somehow cool and confident ) wayne newton drifter type .  the last stop is available on dvd from sterling home entertainment .  as usual with sterling , they've filled out this dvd with extra features .  the disc contains the film in its original aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 , a choice of 2 . 0 dolby surround sound or 5 . 1 dolby digital surround sound , a full length audio commentary track with director mark malone , interviews with the cast and crew , the original trailer , and the usual cast and crew biographies .  the film itself might not be the greatest , but sterling's effort of adding decent extra features while keeping the price affordable ( suggested retail of $19 . 95 ) makes this dvd worth the money .  [r] 
pos@ very few people would be unaware of beavis & butt-head ( both created and narrated by mike judge ) .  they are the two animated mtv characters who have the most annoying laughter know to human kind .  you may have seen them on their television program , as they snigger and make lude remarks about women , anything related to sex , and the music film clips that they watch .  in beavis & butt-head do america the pair finally make their big screen debut , to the delight of some , and the deplore of others .  beavis & butt-head ( yes , those are their real names ) , are two very ugly teenagers with extremely warped minds driven by raging hormones .  they live their lives in front of the television .  the worst possible event occurs to the pair when their television is stolen .  this happens as they sleep , and when they awake it takes them a few minutes just to decipher that the television has gone .  beavis even tries to use the remote , though there is no television there .  the two spot a van outside and two sinister looking men carrying a television .  even at this point they have no idea what has happened .  they look around , seeing all the evidence , but are completely oblivious to the fact that these men have just stolen their television .  before the movie i knew that they were stupid , but i didn't realise just how stupid .  this is typical of their behaviour throughout the film .  eventually they realise that their television has been stolen , so they leave their sofa to go search for a television .  luck would have it that they stumble into a hotel room ( looking for a television ) where a man is awaiting two guys whose task it is to kill his wife .  this man , thinking that beavis & butt-head are the assigned killers , tells them that they can have $10 , 000 if they " do his wife " .  beavis & butt-head , being the ignorant fools that they are , think that he is offering them $10 , 000 dollars to have sex with his good looking wife .  they are taken to the airport where they fly to las vegas to " do her " .  to them , this is the best day of their lives .  not only are they going to lose their virginity ( one of their lifelong aims ) , but most importantly , they will have enough money to buy a big screen tv .  inevitably they become caught up in a huge crime , and unbeknown to them , are tracked across the country by the fbi .  oddly enough , it is their complete stupidity that spares them from being caught , as a result the fbi is convinced they are criminal masterminds .  they end up travelling right across america , visiting places such as the hoover dam and washington dc .  the irony is that although they visit so many grand and spectacular locations , their one time out in the big world away from their television , they are completely oblivious to it .  at old faithful they are far more fascinated with the infra-red operated urinals than with the geyser itself .  beavis & butt-head essentially have the journey of their lives .  they even get to meet the president .  but all they care about is getting their television back , and losing their virginity .  this is one of the many reasons that the film is so funny - it's unbelievable just how stupid they are , and how they can be so oblivious to everything around them .  the humour is certainly crude , but then beavis & butt-head are just that ; crude , lude and rude .  in the end you can't help but feel sorry for them , a pair of anti-social couch potatoes whose life is television .  in this respect , and also with regard to authority ( such as the fbi ) mike judge is quite critical of amercian society .  if you are easily offended , or find this pair particularly annoying , steer clear .  otherwise , it should keep you laughing the whole way through .  one note of warning : don't take friends who like to imitate beavis & butt-head . . . . . you'll  never hear the end of it ! 
neg@ there are some pretty impressive stars in lost in space - it's just that none of them happen to be actors .  the stars i'm referring to are the computer generated ones that make up the movie's " outer space " ; the stars that the less impressive actors hurtle thru as they try to find their way home .  yes , in terms of acting , the star power is .   .   .  well , more like a falling star .  kinda pretty , short-lived , and pretty much dead .  lost in space , as if you really didn't know , is based on the 60's sci-fi television series of the same name .  it's the year 2058 , and earth's precious resources are quickly being usurped by the needs of its massive population .  john robinson ( william hurt ) is the scientist leading a mission program to colonize a foreign planet .  earth's entire existance is contingent upon a successful mission , but nobody , whether it be john's family or hired battle pilot don west ( matt leblanc ) , seems too enthusiastic about leaving their home planet for several years .  john's family consists of his wife maureen ( mimi rogers ) , his atypical teenage daughter penny ( lacey chabert ) , his ingenious son will ( jack johnson ) , and his beautiful scientist daughter judy ( heather graham ) .  despite everyone's reluctance , the jupiter 2 spacecraft abandons planet earth and makes its way into the vast eternity of space .  unknown to anyone but the audience , there is an evil doctor stowaway determined to sabotage the entire mission .  dr . smith ( gary oldman ) has been hired by a group of rebel conspirators to turn the expedition sour , and dr . smith has re-programmed a talking robot to " destroy robinson family " !  when everything that could go wrong does go wrong for both sides , the spaceship is warped to an unknown destination , and now the premise of being lost in space is complete .  as for the audience , you will likely be lost in boredom by this point , wondering if the plot , like the jupiter 2 , will ever get off the ground .  it's hard to tell who deserves the most blame - the incredibly bland and corny characters or the horrifically lame script ?  chabert is basically the only one to overdo it , sounding like a whiny munchkin on helium .  if you , like me , were convinced by commercials that her voice was altered for some sort of plot twist where her body would be taken over by aliens , you're wrong !  that's just her normal voice !  in yet another example of a " friend " faltering on the big screen , leblanc is so incredibly dull and yet so obviously trying so hard to be so incredibly charming ( make sense ? ) , it makes you want to shove his ass out the escape pod corridor without an escape pod .  graham is a babe - thank goodness there was something for me to think about during this film .  hurt , the black hole of excitement , sucks up any energy that might have been left .  if hurt were available in tablet form , he would be a prescription strength sleeping pill .  johnson isn't dull , he's just lame as the young know it all who winds up saving everybody's ass all the time .  want an example of how cool this kid can be ?  how about when he convinces the robot to think with its heart and reconsider killing the family ?  hey , don't laugh - the thing actually listened to the mr . rogers-would-be-proud sentiment .  but alas , if you thought a character couldn't be much worse , there was rogers as the epitome of generic ( or , mother as she was known ) .  why hire an actress ?  they could've had a white cardboard cutout with the word mom printed on it .  now that would've had some pizzazz !  lost in space luckily doesn't suffer in every single category that it could have .  the special effects are crisp , clear , and at least mildly captivating , unlike any of the presences onscreen save it be oldman , who plays his evil character with a great deal of fun and finesse .  unfortunately , oldman is locked away for most of the film , giving us nothing but ample mocking opportunities to enjoy .  while the special effects are pleasing to the eye , they are nothing you couldn't find in most modern sci-fi films .  contact , for example , far exceeds this film in terms of imagery and imagination .  lost in space just has too many shortcomings to ever be considered a work of cinematic art , with numerous contradictions ( the time travel aspect was horribly flawed ! ) , wooden and corny acting , worse dialogue , and an ending so disappointing , you'd be happier to have seen the entire robinson family get blown to smithereens .  then again , with an ending like this film has , it's obvious a sequel is already being considered .  what an awful note to end on , knowing there could be more of this in a year or two .  the attempt to be family oriented is commendable , but lost in space is lost with the illusion that special effects and the nostalgia of a classic tv series being revisited is enough to satisfy all age groups .  well , danger potential movie goers !  danger !  this movie crash lands without ever breaking thru the atmosphere of mediocrity . 
pos@ finding the courage to face life full-on is a difficult task .  summoning up the audacity to fall in love is a harder job .  if you're a total jerk like melvin udall is , the odds are even more against you .  melvin ( jack nicholson ) is a successful romance author who is just the opposite of what you would expect someone in that profession to be .  a solitary man hidden away in his new york apartment with no human interaction and not even a hint of ever having been in a passionate relationship , he avoids the outside world as much as possible .  his obsessive-compulsive disorder rules his life as he uses several different bars of soap to wash his hands and refuses to step on a crack on the sidewalk .   ( there's a great scene when he has to cross a floor made of mosaic tiles -- _very_small_ mosaic tiles . )  melvin has some great lines .  when his publisher's receptionist asks him how he writes women so well in his books , he responds " i think of men and i take away reason and accountability . "  don't get him wrong , he's not merely a misogynist .  setting his sights higher than that , he's also a homophobe , racist , anti-semite , xenophobe , animal-hater and intensely dislikes people who talk in metaphors .  when we first meet him , he's busy dumping a neighbor's dog down the garbage chute .  he's an equal opportunity bigot .  he does venture outside his apartment every day to eat breakfast at a local cafe .  melvin is such a grouchy curmudgeon that waitress carol connelly ( helen hunt ) is the only one willing to wait on him .  and she's none too happy about it .  when carol doesn't show up for work , melvin's routine is shot and he's determined to do something about it .  tracking down her address , he shows up at her place begging her to come back to work so that he can eat breakfast .  the fact that she's a poor single mother caring for a chronically ill son doesn't appear to phase him , he wants his food .  much more upsetting is that his gay artist neighbor simon bishop ( greg kinnear ) is brutally attacked during a robbery .  this doesn't upset melvin much ( " don't worry , you'll be back on your knees in no time " ) but when he is bullied into taking care of simon's dog , his life is turned topsy-turvey .  melvin is sequestered because he's afraid of what's out there on the other side of his apartment door .  he has to make sure it's ritualistically locked three times to keep the world on its proper side .  when he brings the dog home he reluctantly grows fond of it , talking to it and taking it everywhere he goes .  this little crack in his emotional armor opens him up .  hiding behind his need for carol to return to work so she can serve him , he pays for a specialist to treat her son .  he even develops a friendship with simon .  all three people are heavily damaged .  melvin has retreated from life in his apartment .  carol has devoted herself to her son , convinced that she has to give up her life for him .  simon is estranged from his parents and his friends disappear when he is hospitalized and his money runs out .  a more unlikely trio to form relationships , you'd rarely see .  and in the midst of it all , there are some wonderful moments .  melvin is hilarious in his grouchiness and touching as he attempts to be nice .   " you make me want to be a better man , " he tells her .  one of the best aspects is that even as he opens up , he is still a curmudgeon .  carol , afraid that his monetary contribution to the wellness of her son hides a hidden agenda rushes over to his apartment in the rain to explain in no uncertain terms that she will never sleep with him .  it only takes her a second to realize that she is delivering that statement while looking as if she just left a wet t-shirt contest .  there's hardly anything left to say about jack nicholson .  i don't remember ever seeing him in anything less than a stellar performance and his over-the-edge melvin is no disappointment .  nicholson may be the best actor working today .  hunt does a commendable job matching nicholson's energy .  she isn't afraid to be seen as something less than a babe and her portrayal of exhausted run-down carol struggling with seemingly overwhelming obligations is top-notch .  their on-screen chemistry is a bit odd .  each does a wonderful job with the character , but together , there's something a little off .  it's a minor problem : they do work well together , but that missing element is what prevents this from being a four-star film .  director james l . brooks ( " terms of endearment " , " broadcast news " ) has a movie that is picking up awards by the bucketsful ( nominees for all the top golden globes , winners from the national board of review , inevitable oscars ) and has a winner on his hands .   " as good as it gets " isn't exactly the quality that the title says , but it's pretty darn close .   ( michael redman has written this column for over 22 years and as soon as he finishes this one , he's off to an annual 12 night celebration typically held in freezing weather during a snowstorm .  this year it's in the sixties and raining .  that wacky el nino . ) 
neg@ when walt disney pictures announced a live-action feature based on the '60s cartoon series of " mr . magoo , " special interests groups representing the vision-impaired let out a cry of dismay .  mr .  magoo , they claimed , would be an insult to the men and women they represented .  in fact , they were wrong .  mr .  magoo is not just an insult to the blind and near-blind , it's an insult to every human being who has the misfortune to suffer through this dreadfully unfunny , 90 minute atrocity .  it's stating the obvious to remark that disney appears to have run out of original ideas .  look at their roster of 1996 and 1997 releases , and you'll see a shocking list of retreads , including 101 dalmatians , george of the jungle , jungle2jungle , that darn cat ! , flubber , and now mr .  magoo .  the best of these ( george of the jungle ) was mildly entertaining .  the worst , mr .  magoo , exposes just how painful a bad movie experience can be .  the first problem with mr .  magoo is the script .  despite the collaboration of naked gun scribe pat proft , mr .  magoo is comically barren .  from beginning to end , there's not a laugh to be found .  every attempt at humor -- and there are lots of them -- falls flat with an audible thud .  you'd think that out of the dozens of gags jammed into this film , at least a few would work , but that's not the case .  i've had more laughs during ingmar bergman pictures .  then there's leslie nielsen , who looks , sounds , and acts absolutely nothing like the animated character ( memorably voiced by jim backus ) .  in the past , nielsen has proven his comic aptitude with roles in movies like airplane and the naked gun .  lately , however , he has been getting lazy , taking parts in the likes of dracula : dead and loving it , spy hard , and mr .  magoo .  even if nielsen was in top form , it would take an incredible stretch of imagination to see him as magoo ( especially since we're reminded of the original by the short cartoon segments that open and close the film ) , but " top form " is not a phrase i would use to describe his performance here .  this is strictly a take-the-money-and- run operation .  the story , which , like many disney stories , can be described in one long sentence : magoo is the only witness to the theft of a rare jewel from a museum , and , as he is trying to apprehend the thieves on his own , the police mistake him for the robber .  the cops are played by ernie hudson and stephen tobolowsky , who take their lumps early and often .  the bad guys are kelly lynch ( who does a lot of martial arts-type kicking ) , nick chinlund , and malcolm mcdowell ( who has the good sense to look embarrassed ) .  matt keeslar portrays one of magoo's sidekicks -- his nephew , waldo .  the bumbling man's other , more interesting companion is a dog named angus .  most of mr .  magoo's humor comes in the form of failed slapstick .  the cartoon violence level in this film doesn't approach that of home alone 3 or flubber , but it's still pretty acute , with characters getting hit on the head with sledgehammers and knocked off snowy precipices .  there's a non-violent bit with magoo preparing a chicken dinner that could have been funny if it was handled better , but , compared to mr . bean's recent , similar misadventure , it doesn't hold up well .  then there is the series of lame jokes that result from magoo's near blindness , such as the occasion when he mistakes a wild animal for a baby .  i'm willing to cut director stanley tong a little slack .  tong , a hong kong film maker trying to break into the hollywood market , has helmed several jackie chan movies , including first strike , rumble in the bronx , and supercop .  his chief talent , that of choreographing martial arts fights , is wasted here ( despite some high kicking by kelly lynch ) .  like john woo ( hard target ) and ringo lam ( maximum risk ) before him , it appears that tong has been consigned to the purgatory of making a bad movie as his entry into the american mainstream .  it is worth noting that , unlike many disney films which hold a perverse appeal for the under-10 crowd while driving parents to distraction , mr .  magoo appears to bore viewers of all ages .  the screening i attended was wall-to-wall kids , and , for the most part , they didn't seem to be enjoying themselves .  when the film was over , i asked one little girl what she thought of it .  her pained expression confirmed the adage that a picture can indeed be worth a thousand words .  mr .  magoo is the kind of movie that should be rejected by any potential viewer , sight unseen . 
pos@ seen at the 21st portland international film festival  film title : supermarket woman director : juzo itami country : japan 1997 cinematography : yonezo maeda music : toshiyuki honda cast : nobuko miyamoto , masahitko tsugawa , shiro ito , yuji miyake , akiko matsumoto super features : typical itami film . . .  funny and pointed in its own way .  if you don't care how and what the food you buy goes through in your local supermarket , then this film is not for you . . . .  maybe it is better to ignore it , as this strong and biting satire , as only juzo itami can deliver , will give you an insight as to what some foods go through .  having , in the past , made films that pulled every punch imaginable , from the family traditions ( the funeral ) , to taxes ( a taxing woman & a taxing woman returns ) , to the diabolical gangsters ( minbo ) , to hospitals ( the seriously ill ) , juzo itami , this time takes on the supermarkets' own war , to get the consumers .  and while this film has its funny side , in the crazy situations that it creates , it also shows another side , which is very much the attitude of a corporate structure that is more concerned with its profits than it is with any customer .  goro has a supermarket .  and a competitor comes into the neighborhood , trying to take him out of business by providing less expensive prices for everything that is sold in the supermarket .  bargains galore , its name , has in mind the closure of goro's humbler venue , so that in the end it can mark up its prices in any way it can .  goro hires hanako , a housewife whose talents seem to be better suited to management , than they are in anything else .  hanako , as she gets familiar with the operation , discovers many of the tricks of the trade , done by many of the elders in charge of each section of the market .  and the procedures , are not always " fresh " food , but a new packaging and a new date , to try and convince the customers that quality is on the shelves .  hanako's ideas take hold , starting with a few of the women that work in the supermarket , being that they do not even shop there at all .  and hanako discovers along the way that a few giveaways here and there make a bit of a difference .  if not cause some serious problems in the running of the store .  a price error , forces them to give away eggs for very low prices , and causes the store a few hassles , but , it brought the people in , and everyone knows that these customers will buy a few other things .  as the operation gets stronger , the competition also has trickery up its sleeve , and it has been undermining much of the operation by paybacks to one of the store managers , as well as the meat and fish elder supervisors .  eventually these people are found out , and hanako has to tread slowly and carefully , until in the end they all have a showdown .  and here , the truth and honesty win out , and even one of the elders decides to stay rather than go to work for the corrupt opponent .  in the process , they also find that " freshness " ( with some very funny jokes on this word as well ) becomes a much more important tool than they imagined .  with some very nice performances , in this hectic , and fast paced film , this film gives us a sitting of two hours that is satisfying in many ways , although a failed love story between goro and hanako does not come off much , even though towards the end it is suggested .  but this would take away from the satire and its strengths .  with food gags all over the place , the film lets you have it .  and what fun it is .  worth seeing .   ( editorial ) the director of this film , juzo itami , died shortly after the film was finished , and he left behind a legacy of comedy and satire that is rare , and uncompromising .  we would wish that he had been able to make one about film making , of which he must have had a few stories to tell , but we will have to do with much of the japanese society , and its many errant ways . . . .  not to say that these things do not happen anywhere else . . . .  america is no less guilty of any of these subjects at all , should anyone have the guts to tackle it . . .  we could learn something along the way , too . . . .  worth seeing , specially , is a taxing woman and its follow up a taxing woman returns .  the funeral is also good , although not as funny as the later films .  tampopo is also very enjoyable .  all four of these films are available in video , which means your best local site for foreign film may have them . . .  ask for it . 
neg@ synopsis : sonny koufax ( adam sandler ) is a rich , childish , angry man who has just been dumped by his girlfriend vanessa ( kristy swanson ) .  in a bid to impress vanessa sonny impersonates his friend kevin ( jon stewart ) and adopts a 5 year old boy named julian ( cole and dylan sprouse ) while kevin is on an overseas trip .  under sonny's supervision julian soon learns to lie to women , tell people how he " wipes his ass , " throw tantrums , and scream for his " god damned " treats .  self centered , julian breaks a school classmate's arm without apologizing or even realizing he has done anything wrong .  meanwhile sonny bribes julian with sugary talk , food , toys , and flashy promises in order to get the kid to perform .  not surprisingly the government takes julian away from sonny's incompetent supervision , and this leads to a custody battle .  opinion : it's a movie about an embittered creep teaching a little kid to be a jerk , and we all get cheap laughs because for 90 minutes the innocent kindergartner never finds out what it means when he mimics all the bad boy behavior .  that's the essence of big daddy .  but there's a bigger issue involved : marketing .  movies that are rated pg and pg-13 are heavily marketed towards children of preteen age and below .  on tv , film clips advertise these movies as family-friendly hit comedies .  then when you go see them they turn out to be either raunchy sex acts like austin powers with characters named fat bastard - - or big daddy where adult characters get their jollies by buddying up to naive five year olds and encouraging them to experiment with drugs and mistreatment .  folks in hollywood are trying to develop a preteen market for raunchy stuff , but i think most american parents would agree that early childhood is a time of mental innocence that should be protected from uncaring media market exploitation .  to many american mothers there's probably nothing more pathetic and unsettling than the sight of a theater full of unsupervised little eight year olds laughing raucously as movie character father adam sandler jokes about a woman's " ice cold tits . " 
pos@  " footloose " has only one goal in mind : to reel in an audience with cheesy sentiment and feel-good antics .  and i hate to admit it ; i fell for it .  the movie is about a teenager ( bacon ) who moves to a small town from the big city , and discovers that dancing has been banned by the local reverend ( lithgow ) .  he ends up falling for the preacher's daughter ( singer ) and showing the whole town what the magic of dance can do .  as mentioned at the beginning of this review , " footloose " is an extremely hokey and predictable teen drama .  there are virtually no surprises , and the writing is second-rate .  so why did i enjoy it so much ?  for one thing , the cast is great .  kevin bacon oozes charisma in an early role .  we're rooting for him right from the start , and , unlike most films of this genre , bacon doesn't play him as the " rebel without a clue " sort .  yes , he does rebel , but he's also polite when he needs to be .  and he never broods .  the rest of the cast is equally impressive .  john lithgow , seen here playing a normal guy for a change , is playing a man who would normally be a flat out villian .  but lithgow plays him as a concerned father who is trying to do what he feels is best for his daughter .  by the end of the film , we feel a genuine sense of love and understanding between him and the lori singer character .  another nice touch is the music .  we see the parents of the kids complaining that the music they listen to is filled with " sexual innuendos " , but that's not true at all .  the title track , performed by kenny loggins , is upbeat and fun .  during the final sequence , i was overcome with the urge to get off the couch and start dancing .  of course , i soon realized that would be a little pathetic .  anyway , " footloose " is a charming little surprise .  don't let the premise prevent you from watching it .  it sucked me in , and it'll do the same to you . 
neg@ tv's buffy finds herself on the other side of the supernatural spectrum in " simply irresistible . "  sarah michelle gellar , that never-ceasing crusader against never-ending evil every tuesday night on the wb network , here plays a down-on-her-luck chef suspected of dabbling in witchcraft after her flailing restaurant receives help in the form of magically scrumptious meals .  taste test results : some vampire slaying , though out of place , would have really livened this excruciating movie up .   " simply irresistible " is actually quite easy to deny , a disaster of culinary and other proportions pretty much from the opening on .  gellar's amanda finds herself falling for harried henri bendel exec tom ( sean patrick flannery of powder ) around the same time she discovers an uncanny ability to mystically manifest emotions in her cooking , a secret ingredient that arouses both his interest in her and the public's in her tiny tribeca eatery .  all this love and sorcery have a lot to do with the telekinetic crab that also figures into the story , a tale that at times plays like an american spin on 1993's mexican classic " like water for chocolate . "  several differences : one , " like water " didn't have a telekinetic crab , and two , " like water " was a good film .   " simply irresistible , " on the other hand , is about as challenging as an easy-bake oven .  amateurishly staged scenes cancel each other out in their badness , from an embarrassing seduction in a literal vanilla fog to an impromptu dance sequence where tom and amanda do their best fred and ginger - though fred and ginger never took part in anything this garish .  the intrusive musical score distracts from the flat dialogue at regular intervals , but it's not like you're were going to miss much .  in fact , take away the few instances of salty language and this has made-for-disney channel written all over it .  but a majority of " simply irresistible " 's resistibility factor has less to do with the afore-mentioned overkill than the bland leads - tom and amanda are so thin and ambiguously defined that there's just no fun rooting for their inevitable " happily ever after . "  nor do the otherworldly powers that serve to bring them together make sense , so we're left with a ho-hum relationship based on enchanted eclairs ; it's not going to last long , people .  perhaps sensing this , the filmmakers have piled on weird supporting characters for acting vets like betty buckley , dylan baker and patricia clarkson , but they don't go anywhere either .  in fact , nothing in " simply irresistible " goes anywhere save for gellar , and she doesn't go somewhere so much as you wish she'd go _somewhere_ - like to a better movie .  already proving major talent with relatively few big- and small-screen roles , she's the sole reason this overcooked souffle isn't completely fit for the garbage disposal , looking smashing in her todd oldham-designed duds and investing much more in her perfunctory part than she ever gets in return .  it's certainly a dish best not served in it's current condition , but one can only guess that , without gellar , " simply irresistible " would be strictly unwatchable . 
pos@ full metal jacket , very much like every other hard-hitting film about the vietnam war , is an shocking , emotional depiction of the war that effected almost everyone in america .  this film is more like platoon than any other in the way that it chronicles the struggles of a young man ( private joker , played by matthew modine ) during his tour in the vietnam war .  however , full metal jacket gives the audience an insight into combat life very rarely seen before : boot camp .  these sequences are considered to be the best part in this three act film , even though i found the later portions to be equally stunning .  as in platoon , full metal jacket gets off to a quick start .  the opening sequence is the initiation for the recruits , which is getting their heads shaved .  from there , they find themselves standing at attention and receiving their orders from the extremely hard and punishing sergeant hartman , played extremely well by the former drill instructor r . lee ermey .  apparently , the solution was found for the perfect man to play a drill instructor in the movies , because ermey depicts his character extremely well and will make you thank whomever that you were never subjected to such horrible situations .  private joker gets off on the wrong foot with the sergeant , as does the large bodied private leonard lawrence ( vincent d'onofrio ) , whom is dubbed 'gomer pyle' by sgt .  hartman .  the film is continually narrated by private joker , in which he explains his visions on what is going on .  the entire corps , although repeatedly hammered by sgt .  hartman , continues on .  private pyle , however , seems to be the rag doll for the drill instructor .  he continually absorbs the worst punishment and humiliation , and it basically does not stop .  that is , until sgt .  hartman comes up with a new plan .  he will punish the rest of the soon-to-be-marines for pyle's goof-ups , even after joker was assigned to help him out in the best way he can .  pyle then receives punishment from his fellow recruits , and things take a turn for the worst .  pyle proves that not everyone is emotionally , physically , and mentally cut out for the life of a marine .  after graduation , joker is sent over to the height of the action in order to document the war , which is his service .  he is not a member of the infantry , and it is unclear if he will ever actually find himself in combat .  when he sets out on a documenting mission , this question becomes very clear from the start .  joker joins up with a platoon , along with his hometown friend cowboy ( arliss howard ) , and follows their everyday actions , interviewing and filmming them along the way .  he also soon finds himself in a position in which he must fight , or die .  again , as in the tradition of vietnam war films , full metal jacket can be debated as to whether it is an anti-war film or not .  a few of the more powerful scenes toward the end will leave you to decide .  full metal jacket succeeds extremely well in documenting the life of a young man in vietnam , as have others in the past .  this film , in different ways , also can be viewed as more powerful than others .  that , again , is up for debate and depends on your opinion .  one thing is for sure , however ; no one ever wants to experience the absolute hell that these soldiers are subjected to .  unfortunately , many did . 
neg@  " knock off " is exactly that : a cheap knock off of an action movie .  it's also the worst movie i have seen thus far this year .  i figured it would be at least a couple of months before i saw the worst film of 1998 , but alas , it has already been found .  jean-claude van damme stars as ( i think ) a designer jeans executive who discovers his half-brother has been supplying him with cheaper goods .  rob schneider plays van damme's partner , and rochon plays . . .  actually , i have no idea who rochon was supposed to be .  she just sort of popped up halfway through without an explanation as to why she was there .  many things are not explained in this film , but i do know that for some bizarre reason , van damme seemed to be doing a jackie chan impression throughout the flick .  where chan comes off as endearing in his " normal guy " character seen in many of his films , van damme just comes off as a wimp .  we're never given any clear explanation as to the basis for many of his actions .  to be more clear : i did not even know who he was supposed to be until about an hour into the movie , and even then , it was not made too clear .  the film has been directed in the style of some strange film experiment gone horribly wrong .  tsui hark ( who directed van damme's last movie , the bad , but not nearly as bad as this , " double team " ) never lets the camera rest for a second , and that's no exaggeration .  we are even treated to a five second shot from the point of view of van damme's foot entering a shoe .  fabulous !  seriously , though , i have no problem with directors who want to play around with film conventions , as long as they don't get carried away .  for example , look at sam raimi .   " army of darkness " , one of his best movies , features some of the most inventive camera work i have ever seen , but raimi never lets the special effects get in the way of story .  that's a concept that tsui can't seem to grasp .  the special effects and outrageous camera angles * rule * " knock off " to the point where the audience doesn't have a clue as to what's happening any more .  another problem with the film is that it looks cheap .  the film stock used is of such low caliber that i thought i was watching one of those chinese films shown really late at night .  and for some inexplicable reason , everyone's voice seems to have been dubbed .  even the stars .  and even the special effects , seemingly the only aspect of the film the director actually cared about , are inconsistent .  for example , there is a scene in which van damme drives a car out of a window .  the car slams into the ground , and the left wheel is completely destroyed .  seconds later , the car drives off at full speed .  hey , i have no problem suspending my disbelief in an action movie , but a line must be drawn somewhere .  finally , the acting .  nobody gives a good performance in this film .  van damme , an actor i usually like , is way off the mark playing " everyman " .  and schneider , here to provide comic relief i assume , is totally unfunny and over acts his way through every scene .  even the usually solid paul sorvino gives a terribly over-the-top performance as . . .  once again , i have no idea who he was supposed to be .  in case i haven't yet made it clear enough , " knock off " is the worst movie of van damme's career and possibly the worst movie of the decade .  and it's not even one of those movies that's so bad it's funny .  it's too inept to be funny .  there are no redeeming factors in " knock off " and i seriously hope that every print of this film is burned to a crisp and that somehow my memory of watching the film can be erased . 
pos@ when quentin tarantino made " pulp fiction " , he was not only making the greatest film of the 90s ; he was also making what i believe to be the most influential movie of all time .  but before you send me hate-mail for not giving that title to " citizen kane " , hear me out .  much like " citizen kane " , " pulp fiction " has changed movie making forever .  but i think the latter has had a tad more impact .   " pulp fiction " has actually ushered in a new era of film making .  it has altered the way films will be viewed .   " fiction " has spawned so many imitations , i've lost count .  sure , some have been excellent ( " bound " and " the usual suspects " spring immediately to mind ) , but any serious movie-goer recognizes " pulp fiction " as the original neo-noir of the 90s .  in this review , i hope to change all the people's minds who have criticized it for it's excessive profanity and violence ( which , by the way , isn't really that graphic ) .  the most brilliant aspect of tarantino's masterpiece is the screenplay .  it is filled with so much classic dialogue ( the " quarter pounder with cheese " speech will go down in history ) , it should be required reading for any film student , if it isn't already .  the story ( told in unorthodox non-linear format ) centers around three main episodes , all of which eventually intertwine .  the first , titled " vincent vega and marcellus wallace's wife " , deals with a very loaded john travolta ( i forgot to mention the cool heroin shoot-up sequence ) taking mia wallace ( a star-making performance by uma thurman ) , his bosses wife , out on a date to a cool 50s restaurant called jack rabbit slim's .  they talk for a while ( with the occasional " uncomfortable silence " ) , mostly about a guy called tony rocky horror .  after giving marcellus' new bride a foot massage , he was thrown off a building and into a greenhouse , giving him a " speech impediment " .  they also partake in a cool dance contest and end up twisting to the chuck berry classic " you never can tell " .  i won't reveal the rest of the story , but i'll definitely say that it turns out to be a real bummer of a night , despite the cool trophy they win .  the second story ( the least of the three but still four stars ) stars bruce willis ( proving he can play someone other than john mcclain in the " die hard " flicks ) as boxer butch coolidge .  previously in the film ( like i said , it's told in non-linear form ) , he had made a deal with marcellus wallace that he would take a fall in a match .  as it turns out , he not only doesn't take the fall , but he ends up actually killing his opponent .  he takes a cab to his half-witted girlfriend's apartment , and to make a long story short , ends up going back to his own place to retrieve a gold watch , sort of a family heirloom explained by christopher walken in a hilarious flash-back sequence .  on his way home , he bumps into ( literally ) marcellus .  the two winde up prisoner to two hillbilly sex murderers , which results in the infamous " gimp " scene , which is very reminicent of the " squeal like a pig ! "  scene from " deliverance " .  the last ( and best , in my opinion ) of the episodes features john travolta ( again ) and samuel l . jackson ( in the best performance of any supporting actor ever ) as two slightly off-kilter hitmen trying to rid themselves of a bloody car .  they seek help with a friend of jackson's ( played by the q-man himself ) , desperately in need of a stress ball .  they end up calling a " cleaner " of sorts , played by the god among men harvey keitel , to help them out .  in the end , the story brilliantly loops around itself , actually ending where it began .  if you haven't already seen the film ( or even if you have , for that matter ) , i suggest you invest your money in a copy of the letterbox collectors edition .  it features two previously unreleased scenes and the original film restored how it was originally meant to be seen .  earlier today , i bought this version and watched it a few hours ago .  what the pan-and-scan did to this movie is inexcusable .  that version cut out , like , half the movie .  what i have missed in the past years of viewing this flick is amazing .  for instance , when travolta and jackson are in the apartment near the end , the widescreen version allows you to see that several things on the walls make crosses .  this might help explain the divine intervention that takes place .  just a theory . . .  one of the things that pisses people off so much about this movie is that tarantino borrowed alot of scenes from other movies ( i . e .   " psycho " " kiss me deadly " , " deliverance " , etc . ) .  but why shouldn't he ?  it's not like he out-right and blatantly stole .  give the guy a break .  in case you haven't already noticed , i believe " pulp fiction " is a supremely excellent film and one of the best of all time ( up there with such greats as " casablanca " and " the godfather " ) .  trust me , you will not see a better film come out of the 90s .  and besides , it's one hell of a ride .  note : if anyone knows how i could get a " bad motherfucker " wallet , please e-mail me .  any help would be greatly appreciated . 
neg@ look ! the new version of " psycho " came out and the world didn't end !  i guess gus van sant really isn't the bringer of the apocalypse !  unfortunately , though , that " psycho " didn't end the world as we know is the best thing that can be said for it .  van sant's controversial " re-telling " of alfred hitchcock's classic 1960 film has polarized filmgoers everywhere ( even before it premiered . )  without benefit of an actual viewing , many have said that the film will , at best , suck .  being an ( almost ) good critic , i waited until i actually saw it to decide that the film , at best , sucked ( and that concludes the use of the word " suck " and , hopefully , the thoughts that i am a brain-dead orangutan . )  director gus van sant took the original hitchcock film and refilmed it , shot-for-shot , using the same , exact script ( with a few minor alterations . )  the inherent challenge was in making the film suspenseful and scary , even though a large group of the audience will know exactly what will happen at the exact time .  suspense probably could have been attained if the actors had been able to create something new or different than the original .  sadly , that did not occur .  it is hard to be overshadowed by vera miles and john gavin ( from the original " psycho ) , but that is what exactly happened to julianne moore and viggo mortensen .  in moore's case , the film would have been helped if " the x- files " gillian anderson had been cast instead ; especially since moore goes through the entire film doing a scully impression !  from the cold demeanor and expressions to her rigid way of forming a sentence , moore is scully !  mortensen ( who i liked in " g . i .  jane " ) opts to play sam loomis as a cowboy/hick , which would have been nice if he had gone past that starting point .  sam has a twang and a cowboy hat , but that's about it .  mortensen turns in one of the most uptight performance in recent memory .  anne heche , in the janet leigh role , does a few good things in her brief time on screen .  at least her marion crane has a little life in her , which can't be said for most of the rest of the cast .  the best work , though , comes from vince vaughn , as the demented mama's boy , norman bates .  he's not going to make anyone forget anthony perkins , but he is effective both in being naughty and nice .  the best part of the film is the dinner scene heche and vaughn , where they simply talk .  there is some solid acting there , something that is not carried through the rest of the film .  van sant has made a boring film .  all the camera tricks that hitchcock so eloquently used in 1960 aren't as eye-catching now .  what passed for brilliance then has been copied so many times by so many directors that they don't impress or excite .  van sant , in what i assume is a grasp at originality , decided to put some stream-of-consciousness images into a few famous scenes ( was that a lamb in the middle of the road ? )  these images , included with some questionable editing choices , took away from the scenes themselves and caused , at first , bewilderment and , later , laughter .  definitely not hitchcock's intention !  at least danny elfman had the good sense to not mess with bernard herrmann's original famous and terrific score .  if a film like " psycho " does not frighten , then what's the point .  aside from norman , the characters are thinly drawn people who leave no connection with the audience .  there are things van sant and company could have done to at least make their recreation interesting .  in the end , however , the new " psycho " is a noble attempt , but , alas , a dismal failure . 
pos@ capsule : bleak and point-blank -- just the way it should be .  makes its case with cold-blooded precision and intelligence .   " serial killer chic " is a relatively new entry to the cultural vocabulary , and one of the more stomach-turning ones .  i've never found someone automatically admirable or even interesting because they killed creatively or in great numbers , and because of that i had apprehensions about seeing henry .  i wasn't sure i wanted to see the story of multiple murderer henry lee lucas portrayed as some kind of nihilistic hero/antihero .  thankfully , that's not the way henry works .  the director , john mcnaughton , took a small budget and a gallery of actor friends and created a chilling and intelligent piece of work .  it doesn't provide cheap-jack explanations for henry's behavior : it shows him up for what he is , an unrepentant and un-idolizable man who killed when the mood struck him .  at the film's opening , henry's friend ottis toole has a sister , who comes by to stay while she tries to find work in chicago .  in a viciously riveting scene , he admits matter-of-factly to having murdered his own mother , and she covers his hand with hers .  they are damned together from that moment on .  henry and ottis eventually begin to kill for fun .  the movie is especially good at showing how they seem to have drifted casually into it : there's a scene where the two go to buy a new tv .  the pawnbroker they talk to goads henry with ugly words , and henry responds by stabbing the man to death with a soldering iron .  no preface -- it smashes into us as suddenly as it does the broker .  in a scene which many damned the movie for , unseen , they steal a video camera and film the murder of a whole household , playing it back over and over again for their own enjoyment .  the movie itself , however , does not glorify the killings , but shows instead that henry feels no joy at his work , only irritation .  henry succeeds thanks to excellent writing and direction as well as acting .  michael rooker is credible as henry from the first frame , just standing there , and the rest of the cast works by being unaffected and casual as well .  the producers had originally comissioned a slasher film from mcnaughton , but he decided to give them something more memorable , and consequently the film nearly didn't see release .  the film does not glorify or justify -- it just shows us , with unflinching coldness , what henry was .  i'm hard pressed to see how anyone can see this and consider henry any kind of " victim " or " hero " .  then again , probably , so would henry . 
neg@ at one point in this movie there is a staging of an opera that goes completely wrong .  but one member of the crowd stands up and cheers , thinking the performance was planned , and applauding it for their efforts .  that's " dirty work " in a nutshell .  a very different kind of movie .  this is not a movie that i can easily review .  the critic in me analyzes the structure , plot , acting , characters .   .   . and  tells me this movie is terrible .  but the norm macdonald fan in me had me rolling on the floor laughing .  this movie plays more like an hbo sketch comedy than a movie .  it's a one note concept .  mitch and sam need $50000 in order to bribe a doctor to give their father a heart transplant before other more needy patients .  realizing they are very good at revenge plots , they open a revenge for hire business , eventually running afoul of a rich businessman played by christopher macdonald ( who after roles in " happy gilmore " and " veronica's closet " seems typcast in this role ) , who sends them to destroy a building that mitch learns is the home of his girlfriend's grandmother , thus leading them to plot against the rich businessman on the night of the grand opening of a new opera house .  first the critic in me .  the plot is the standard poor guy vs evil rich guy device , where the main character meets the girl of his dreams along the way .  here's the catch .  none of the characters are sympathetic .  they're all selfish jerks who don't care who they hurt in their attempts to do whatever they want .  the jokes are juvenile , crude , appealing to the worst elements in people .  there's jokes about prostitutes , the homeless , beastiality , anal sex .  there's even a subplot that's developed , it seems , only to make jokes about infidelity and incest .  and i loved watching it .  i was a huge fan of norm macdonald's sarcastic , to-the-point comedy on saturday night live , and this movie is an hour and a half of it .  norm macdonald takes a joke , strips it to the core , and tells it like it is with a dry wit .  like the scene were he and his friend are learning the ropes at a new construction job .  the foreman goes over the basics , which mitch and sam don't understand .  how do they get out of it ?  by admiting they lied on their resumes , and don't know a thing about construction !  and surprise , they get fired .  the characters are incredibly mean-spirited .  there's a father who's loud and obnoxious , a gambling addicted doctor played by chevy chase who tells sam of his father's condition by saying " if i were a gambling man i'd put a lot of money on death . "  the businessman cole who always has his dog spunky , and does who knows what with it .  and then there's mitch and sam , who , thinking they can get $50000 by destroying a building , ponder how their actions would ruin the lives of the residents .   " too bad we have to do it , " mitch says .  here's a movie where every joke that is executed as it is set up , where you see every punchline coming , where every spot profanity could be used and then is used .  at least the film is honest , and makes no mistake that it is anything more than idiotic .  but at least it isn't dull , and it isn't predictable .  and that's the way it should be .  it's sketch comedy , and if you're a fan of norm macdonald , you'll love it .  the jokes are crude , the characters are mean to the core , the attitude of the movie is that it just doesn't care .  if you don't like norm macdonald , or stupid movies , then you probably won't like this one .  the jokes are crude , the characters are mean to the core , the attitude of the movie is that it just doesn't care .  so before seeing this one , tune your mindset , and prepare for a slew of norm macdonald humor , gay animal sex , prison rape jokes , uncaring characters , and one last performance from chris farley .  the critic in me says ( * ) but i give it an 8 ( * * * ) .  i just couldn't stop laughing . 
pos@  " desperate measures " was something i was excited about seeing back when it was originally scheduled to be released : summer '97 .  for some reason , it was delayed until hollywood's traditional dumping ground : january .  now that it's out , i see no real reason for that delay , as it's a simple yet highly entertaining film .  michael keaton stars as a maniacial murderer who's bone marrow can save the life of the dying son of a san francisco police detective ( garcia ) .  keaton agrees to the transplant , only so he can attempt escape .  he succeeds , in a plan that of course could only work in the movies .  the police force is now trying to kill keaton , while garcia is working against them trying to keep keaton alive in order to save his son .  the film definately has it's flaws .  the plot is strictly tv movie of the week fare , but the acting and direction certainly boost it far above that status .  also , after keaton's escape , garcia's captain barks at him " how many men have to die to save your kid's life ? "  which the film treats as such an evil and insignificant remark .  the thing is , it's a vaild point .  how many people have to be needlessly crippled , burned , and killed just to save this one child ?  what's the greater good here ?  many lives or one life ?  if movies really had guts nowadays , i would have loved to have seen this movie come down to a final choice for garcia's character .  place him in a situation where he knows that he has to kill keaton because keaton is about to kill someone else .  alas , movies these days generally have no such ambition to pull the audience's strings in ways which might make the uncomfortable .  despite a few silly moments ( and one or two really stupid ones ) , the good things about " desperate measures " outnumber the bad .  the main highlight would be keaton's performance .  the character could have easily been an overacting , scene chewing freak , but keaton underplays it nicely .  he's not as menacing as he was in " pacific heights " or even as menacing as he was in " batman " ( yes kids , batman used to be a dark character ) , but you certainly get the idea that he's evil .  even the final scene of the film , which normally i would just hate , seems strangely appropriate for this film .  so much so that i didn't mind it in the slightest .  and another bonus : the film takes place in san francisco , which usually means a car chase on those hills that you've seen a billion times before .  and for a moment , it looked as though it was about to happen .  but it doesn't , and that's creative .  [r] 
neg@ synopsis : al simmons , top-notch assasin with a guilty conscience , dies in a fiery explosion and goes to hell .  making a pact with malebolgia , a chief demon there , simmons returns to earth 5 years later reborn as spawn , a general in hell's army donning a necroplasmic costume replete with knives , chains , and a morphing cape .  sullen , wise cogliostro and flatulating , wisecracking violator vy for spawn's attention .  comments : when todd mcfarlane left marvel comics ( where he had made a name for himself as a first-rate comic book penciller on the " spider-man " titles ) to join the newly-formed , creator-owned image comics , a new comic book legend was born : spawn .  mcfarlane's " spawn " immediately became a commercial and critical success and a defining comic book series of the 1990s .  mcfarlane created a hero who was not only original but visually intricate , allowing mcfarlane to utilize his knack for artistic detail to the max .  the early " spawn " issues brilliantly capture mcfarlane's genius at illustration and show his early attempts at writing .  with the popularity of " spawn " and the success of the current warner bros . 's batman film franchise , a movie version of some sort seemed inevitable for spawn .  in the summer of 1997 , hence , new line cinema released spawn , a live-action film based on the groundbreaking series .  this topheavy exercise in violence and special effects unfortunately topples quickly and leaves fans of the comic book , like me , numbed by how much spawn misses the mark .  what happened ?  why is spawn so bad ?  todd mcfarlane himself executive produced this disappointing misfire and even appears in a cameo .  i don't think , however , that his presence necessarily hurt ( or helped ) the film .  i place the blame , in part , on the recent hollywood trend , fueled by public demand apparently , for special effects blow-out movies utilizing the latest computer technology .  these films focus upon the effects at the expense of everything else : character , plot , dialogue , etc . spawn , reflecting this trend , shows the audience one gratuitous scene after another populated with morphing characters and filled with unnecessary pyrotechnics .  hardly a minute goes by in this film without fires , explosions , knives and chains appearing out of nowhere , glowing eyes , or constantly transforming demons .  a lot of it is visually interesting and technically solid , don't get me wrong , but , because the script and cast aren't engaging , spawn ultimately comes across like overwrought wallpaper ( the surface may capture the eye , but nothing exists underneath ) .  spawn's translation of the comic book suffers the most at the storyline level .  mcfarlane's spawn was a tortured hero .  a mercenary by trade , al simmons was nonetheless a warm man in love with the beautiful wanda .  having died and journeyed to hell , he made a pact to return to earth to be with wanda .  simmons , however , discovers that his memories are fragmented , his body a creepy mess , and his wife married .  despite his sometimes violent nature , readers couldn't help but feel sympathetic toward his plight as the spawn of the underworld .  spawn attempts to show all of this but does not spend nearly the time it should to do so .  when the characters are developed , they seem absurd rather than touching .  the cartoonish dialogue and implausible subplot ( a general possesses the antidote to a supervirus called heat-16 which he wishes to unleash to enslave the world ) do not help matters .  spawn , in an apparent attempt to duplicate the success of batman , also unwisely spends too much time on a villain , the violator ( batman favored the joker over batman ) .  john leguizamo , like jack nicholson in batman , receives top billing in the cast as the violator ; michael jai white ( al simmons / spawn ) is second .  i ordinarily find leguizamo an intensely annoying presence in films which seems to make him a perfect candidate for the violator .  the film , however , spends so much time on the violator's offensive antics that they grate on the nerves .  apparently meant to be the comic relief in the film ( as nicholson was in batman ) , especially when contrasted with the sullen spawn , the violator's lines are oftentimes grotesque and unfunny , leaving the audience wishing he would leave .  leguizamo does a satisfactory job in the role , but he is seen far too often in the film .  michael jai white , a relative newcomer to theatrical releases , seems to be an appealing actor , and he handles his role adequately , but we see little of him without various masks on .  more time needed to be spent on white's character before he became spawn for the movie to pull at the heartstrings .  a special note should be made about martin sheen as the over-the-top , obnoxious , evil general wynn .  easily the hammiest performance in the movie , it's hard to imagine how sheen mucked up his role so much ; after all , he played a vietnam assasin brilliantly in the great apocalypse now .  sheen's excessive demeanor do not help the audience accept him as a mastermind villain and comes as a surprise considering his extensive career in film .  many other elements conspire with the disappointing script and abundant special effects to drag spawn down .  mtv-style , jerky , in-your-face editing is one of them .  flames , for example , roll across the screen sometimes to announce a shift in setting .  cogliostro , unlikely wannabe guide for spawn , serves as a poor narrator for the film .  he goofily tells the audience , at one point , that " how much of [spawn's] humanity is left remains to be seen , " as if the audience really cares as one violent sequence leads to another .  the music , finally , assaults the audience as much as the manic violence and offensive dialogue .  loud and obnoxious hard rock fused with drum loops dominate some scenes .  to be fair , however , marilyn manson's " long hard road out of hell " effectively compliments spawn's return to earth , while filter and the crystal method's " ( can't you ) trip like i do " proves a surprisingly fitting theme song .  for as good a comic book as it is , " spawn " did not spawn a good movie .  spawn , instead , suffers from too much pomp and circumstance , and too little plot and character development .  it receives two stars for its technically well-done special effects .  many other films , though , have equal , if not superior , special effects and are much better .  rated pg-13 , spawn seems more violent than many r-rated movies and probably wouldn't be appropriate for the very young . 
pos@ kevin smith is like a big kid .  his humor is that of a sophisticated juvenile's .  he grew up idolizing star wars and loves comic books , having also written a few .  he also has a cult following , mostly composed of teenagers , college students , and smith's own fellow adolescent-minded grownups .  smith is hilarious in person and in writing , but when he tries to be earnest and moralize , that is when he goes wrong .  kevin smith is a better writer than director , and he'll be the first to tell you that .  that might also be part of the reason why his moralizing comes across as so heavy-handed .  great directors show us their theses instead of having the characters sermonize them .  this was true in the overrated chasing amy , and it is true for dogma as well .  that is not to say smith's message is a bad one .  in dogma , smith tells us that problems arise when people believe beyond any doubt that their insight into god and god's desires is superior to anyone else's .  basically , dogmatism is bad .  changing the minds of the dogmatic is virtually impossible , and since the dogmatic believe that they have special insight , they also know what is best for you , whether you like it or not .  this is not exactly a new message in movies ( see inherit the wind ) , but i have no problems with recycling old ones , particularly since dogma's protesters are proving smith's point .  smith's own problem with delivering this message is that he beats us over the head with it like we are reading a dogma for dummies book .  but this is smith's personality , and his simplistic views neglect such adult issues as how does one interpret the bible ( or koran , etc . ) correctly ( or if there even is a correctly ) and how one settles disputes of heretofore dogmatic concerns .  the story concerns abortion clinic worker bethany ( linda fiorentino ) being chosen by voice of god , metatron ( alan rickman ) , to prevent the destruction of the universe by two fallen angels , bartleby ( ben affleck ) and angel of death , loki ( matt damon ) .  along the way , forgotten thirteenth apostle , rufus ( chris rock ) , stripper muse serendipity ( salma hayek ) , and slacker duo jay and silent bob ( jason mewes and kevin smith himself ) come to bethany's aid .  fallen muse , azrael ( jason lee ) , proves to be the behind-the-scenes manipulator for all the chicanery .  the logical but convoluted plot only exists as an excuse for the jokes and to make smith's points , and in itself , has little dramatic momentum .  among the supposedly outrageous claims made by the film is that god is a woman , jesus was black , and the bible was written by a bunch of racist , misogynistic white men .  of course , kevin smith does not necessarily subscribe to these ideas himself .  they are a metaphor for the fears and insecurities of the dogmatic .  smith says as much in his amusing disclaimer that precedes the movie .  when harvey weinstein asked smith to put it into the film before cannes , smith thought it might give validation to protesters' claims that the film was sacrilegious , but then he rethought it and turned the disclaimer into a joke .  the film's humor is uneven .  some parts are very funny as when bethany goes for a fire extinguisher when metatron makes a burning-bush kind of entrance .  but many of the film's jokes just bomb , as in virtually anything involving salma hayek's serendipity .  also , some of the jokes can be seen coming from a mile away .  still , smith keeps the zingers coming at a sufficiently rapid pace .  among the actors , fiorentino and rickman stand out by far .  fiorentino virtually by herself gives the film emotional weight .  damon and affleck are fairly lackluster .  rock and hayek exist in the film pretty much only as comic relief as are mews and smith .  but the latter duo fare much better because jay and silent bob , who recur in all of smith's movies , are much more in line with smith's brand of humor .  bud cort , george carlin , janeane garofalo , guinevere turner , and alanis morissette all make cameo appearances . 
neg@ synopsis : back-up quarterback moxxon becomes starting quarterback midway through his senior year of high school , even though he'd rather read " slaughterhouse five " than the playbook .  evil football coach kilmer throws away moxxon's book , though , while the evil team physician injects painkillers into the players .  in the meantime , moxxon's kid brother forms a cult , and a bubblegum-blond cheerleader smears whip cream on herself to seduce the new star quarterback .  comments : since i usually review horror and science fiction films , i feel a little out of my league discussing this teen football movie .   ( pun intended .  thank you ! )  varsity blues was produced by mtv , and it really shows .  several extended scenes allow for a continual soundtrack of mediocre pop songs meant to appeal to the adolescent male audience this crap was intended for .  the teenagers all have reasons for their melodramatic angst .  the adults all have problems , of course , and , as one-dimensional characters , they are all fanatically obssessed with how their local high school football team performs .  yes , this movie represents high school life in mtv-land .  this is a land where your health teacher is also a part-time stripper , your ice cream store attendant girlfriend wears an egyptian ankh around her neck , your kid brother forms a " cute " cult , your football coach is an uncaring , obssessive madman , and your friends' lives consist of nothing but getting laid and driving around in cop cars naked .  all you , as the main character , want to do , however , is read " slaughterhouse five " and attend brown university in the fall .  well , at least this is a little more realistic than mtv's " the real world . "  varsity blues stars james van der beek , this week's teen tv star making the leap to the big screen .  he plays the hick moxxon adequately , though some of his emotional dialogue will make people chuckle .   ( " you dawn't own mah life ! "  who would want to ? )  jon voight , the stock evil guy in countless other movies , is , surprise , the stock evil guy here .  but is he really evil , or is he a product of society ?  after all , everybody , young and old , in this movie has no life whatsoever and do nothing but obssess over high school football .  maybe the pressures of the 90 screaming fans at the football field drove evil coach kilmer evil .  the film's screenplay never answers this burning question .  at times , iliff's story does show glimmers of touching or humorous scenes , but , before the audience gets their hopes up that there might be something redeeming in this movie , they get trashed with another lengthy party sequence or overwrought football game .  the movie's pacing is slow , and the plot turns are mindnumbingly obvious from start to finish .  i suppose i'm being a little hard on varsity blues .  maybe i'm just a little miffed that i had to pay 3 bucks to see it , even though it was dollar night at the cinema .  something about a request from the studio made the theater charge more money .  i found the film oftentimes ludicrous and boring .  three guys in front of us smuggled beer into the the theater .  i wished i had thought of that .  alcohol , lots of it , may have helped the viewing experience . 
pos@ with a team of 200 graphic artists and animators working on this first film production from game developer squaresoft's square pictures , final fantasy , inspired by the top-selling game franchise , is visually awe-inspiring and groundbreaking .  no doubt , you have never seen anything like this film , and the hyperbolic fanfare surrounding its release is absolutely deserved .  but why does such a tremendous feat of eye candy have to be weighted down with a problematic story , wooden dialogue and generally uncharismatic voice acting ?  obviously , the primary goal of the film is to stun and amaze audiences with extremely sophisticated cgi .  everything you see in the film is rendered in great detail : individual threads in the fabric , individual strands of hair swaying , wrinkles and pimples on skin , incredible water effects .  overall , the expressions and lip movements fairly accurately match the emotions and dialogue ; and the times when they don't sync perfectly really stand out , since the animation is usually so dazzling .  but you won't spend much time dwelling on those gaffes -- as soon as you catch one , the next stellar monster or effect will have you muttering , " wow . . . "  like the series of games , final fantasy's plot and characters have little to do with its predecessors , outside of being born from the same japanese mastermind , hironobu sakaguchi .  it's the year 2065 , and humans are prisoners in caged cities of their own making that guard them from an outside world now overrun with deadly alien " phantoms . "  whenever a human comes in contact with the ghostly visitors , the often-invisible beings pass through the body and wrench out its soul ( for some unexplainable reason ) .  while many humans agree with a plan by monomaniacal general hein ( james woods ) to blast the aliens with a " zeus cannon , " dr . aki ross ( ming-na ) and dr . sid ( donald sutherland ) plan to build a " wave " using eight collected " spirits " to counteract the phantoms and kill them off .  while the images serve the sci-fi aspect of the film well , the storytelling doesn't .  it's unfortunate , because the plot seems so intricately thought out .  perhaps it was far too complex and enormous to be entirely incorporated into the script .  some could blame this weakness on the fact that it was a japanese concept translated to english , except two americans wrote the screenplay .  nevertheless , the end result is an elaborate story complicated by confusing holes .  why do these aliens feed on souls ?  if they can pass through bodies and ships , how can humans hurt them with guns ?  what is so special about the " spirits " that they would create a force strong enough to destroy the aliens ?  worse yet , the dialogue is scripted to be either like a science-heavy star trek episode , an installment of die hard , or a sappy love story , depending on who's doing the talking .  for the most part , it's bearable considering the genre , but tedious speeches and cheesy lines don't do anything to help the actors and can get annoying in the longer scenes .  the only exception is steve buscemi as pilot neil fleming , who always has great cracks during tense moments .  but , when the lights come up and the credits roll , you're more likely to be remarking on how fantastic the film looked .  there's no question that the roughly 33 million people who have bought at least one final fantasy game will be eager to see this movie , and so should anyone who enjoys being floored by the best cg animation ever put to film .  you'd be living in a fantasy world of your own if you expected much more . 
neg@ if you're the kind of person who goes to see movies just because you long for some of that overpriced theatre popcorn ( butter optional ) , then this is the movie for you !  indeed , this has got to be either one of the most unimaginative rip-offs of other recent action movies , or an incredibly unfunny spoof of them .  it's difficult to fathom such insipidness unless you actually watch this film .  but at least we're warned very quickly that we may regret our ticket purchase , giving us an opportunity to sneak on out and into the adjacent show .  what are the four ingredients of a really bad action movie ?  first , the movie gives us an introductory premise .  huge caverns exist deep beneath the ocean floor , and in this area , many ships have disappeared .  oooh . . . scary !  secondly , a cheesy soundtrack tries to connote a tone of mystery , but only succeeds in drowning our ears with an abrasive musical score .  third , the main character is a mercenary that delivers goods without asking about the contents of his cargo ( treat williams ) .  he operates a sophisticated military-style pt boat and every word that comes out of his mouth is awash in comical flippancy .  finally , in the cargo hold , we see those that hired him .  they are also mercenaries that have tough-looking haircuts , talk with accents , and try to show how macho they are .  during their trip across the stormy sea , their boat suffers an incident and requires repairs .  spotting a cruise ship in the distance , they make their way to the ocean liner and devise a plan to raid the machine shop , take the parts that they need , and then continue on their merry way .  little do they know that this cruise ship has become infested by some kind of ocean monster .  yet , they board the ship armed to the hilt with grenades and machine guns that can kill dozens in a matter of seconds .  this is nothing more than a by-the-book action film .  their realization of the situation that they're in doesn't happen until they are in the bowels of the boat .  those who are dumb enough to stray off on their own will ultimately get killed .  the corridors on the ship are narrow , misty , and provide the kind of atmosphere that all scare-fests must have .  yet , despite the predictable nature of this film , there are some scary " boo " moments .  but most of it is just outright silly .  and this film is unusually gory too .  monsters basically suck off the flesh and spit out skeletal remains .  there is one particularly neat scene where a monster has been cut apart and reveals a victim that is still alive .  he screams horribly as the monster's digestive juices continue to slowly eat him away .  additionally , it borrows heavily from speed2 , alien and a bunch of other recent films .  the mercenaries even run into a lone , surviving passenger ( femke jannsen ) who looks amazingly like sandra bullock .  to be honest , when i left the theatre , i just had to laugh at how witless the film was .  it's moronic fun at best .  so , if you're hankering for a large bucket of popcorn served with a side of silliness , then this might just hit the spot . 
pos@ john cusack is the kind of actor who seems to effortlessly slide into his respective film roles .  so effortlessly that people tend to forget he's there , much in the way people rarely recall many of the great character actors ( anyone who can put the name james rebhorn with that actor's face is invited to treat themselves to a product from one of my sponsors ) .  example : the other day my mother asked me ( the expert , of course ) if there were any movies out worth seeing , never mind that our tastes couldn't be more divergent--- i'll never forget the day she recommended that i go see a night at the roxbury for god sakes , and to be fair she was mightily pissed at me for telling her that go !  was a lot of fun ( which it is ) , so i didn't see this as anything more than a futile attempt at conversation .  i muttered , with a little trepidation , that she might enjoy high fidelity .  she responded with her usual query , " whose in that one ? "  this is a question whose answer that seems to immediately conjure up the kind of movie you went to see .  if the reply is julia roberts you probably assume it was something wispy and light , a sylvester stallone movie and you picture a bloodbath with few words and much involuntary bicep flexing , and a woody allen movie means hyper articulate white people ( usually of the jewish faith ) fretting about in some upper east side palace .  anyway , when i answered " john cusack " , she replied with a rather stunned " who ? " , as if it was unreasonable for her to know whom i was referring to .  now i know for a fact that my mother has seen several cusack movies , most recently being john malkovich and pushing tin , but i suppose it's understandable that she would not recognize the name , after all , for most , names are tougher than faces .  i showed her a picture of cusack's mug in the paper hoping for an " oh - him , yes he's quite good " instead i got a " no - i don't know him " .  at this point i was way beyond frustration into a realm of nose hair yanking anger ( yes , filmic ignorance is all it takes to get me into the nose hair pulling zone ) , till i realized something : i doubt that much of america would recognize cusack's relatively bland visage , or even the name which is rather bland compared to the coolness of a brad pitt or tom cruise , one-syllable names that glide off the tongue with the velocity of a speeding car .  cu-sack . cu-sack - no , not quite as cool .  i'm sure that twenty years from now cusack will forever be referred to as " the guy from ( add in the cusack film of your choice ) " .  he's not a brand name , and his movies usually aren't big moneymakers , but in his own unassuming way he's kind of a genius .  with his pleasant , common man looks , and charming semi-articulate blatherings he has become one of the most likeable romantic leading men of the 90's .  from the sure thing to say anything cusack has merged the talents of early tom hanks and early jack lemmon .  despite the fact that nearly every character he plays is a variation of the character before it ( the schlumpy every man ) , he's a constantly enjoyable screen persona , like albert brooks or woody allen .  and he knows how to chose scripts , while the stephan baldwin's and val kilmer's seem to put them selves in everything ( the former actually had the insight to follow up oscar winner usual suspects with a pauly shore vehicle , and judging from his latest projects it looks like he still has yet to fire his agent ) , cusack generally picks rewarding projects ( save for the unwatchable hot pursuit , a 1988 film also featuring a young ben stiller ) .  high fidelity is his second collaboration with hit or miss english director stephan fears ( the grifters , the hi-lo country ) , and it's a hit .  it was also co-written by cusack , and some of his collaborators on the terrific comedy , grosse point blank .  it's not quite as entertaining or as funny as that film , but as it progresses in its meandering fashion , the movie cast something of a spell over me .  high fidelity begins as a hipster ode to the non-committal rob , a vinyl record store owner , who opens the film by breaking down the fourth wall with much abandon and educating us in his " top 5 break ups list " .  this is something cusack does the entire film a la ferris bueller's day off .  at first the talking-directly-into-the-camera-schtick had me vaguely annoyed , mostly because it reminded me so much of the film body shots which used a similar conceit , but it began to grow on me due almost entirely to cusack's witty delivery .  he's the kind of guy we don't mind talking directly to us .  gradually the film settles into a shampoo-like tragi-comic character study , of a guy who must confront himself and his personal failures in order to figure out the true person he is ( yes it's all very existential ) .  though that plot-line is mostly enjoyable , the thing i liked the most about the film is how much pleasure it offers in introducing us to minor characters , all of whom ( now this is really something ) are terrific enough to warrant their own films .  the best of which is jack black ( of the very funny show tenacious d , a program that sadly went the way of bruce willis' hair ? ? ? unfortunately that annoying smirk remains ) , an ardent record store employee who bullies customers into buying exactly what he wants them to buy .  he's the kind of guy i'm sure we've all met before , a blowhard who thinks he's always right and will do anything in his power ( be it yell , argue , insult ) to hoist his opinion onto others .  but i like this guy , because of how black plays him .  the actor is portly with a round baby face and crazy eyes , but despite his size he leaps to and fro like a manic speed freak ( which might be a bit of a redundant description , seeing as how all the speed freaks i know are manic ) .  he's the kind of supporting character who would be impossibly annoying comic relief in most other films .   ( look at what that hack jan de bont did to poor phillip seymour hoffman in twister ) .  but fears and black never let that happen .  the character , for all his shucking and jiving is steeped in reality .  he's over the top , but in a way we can all probably relate to .  catherine zeta-jones , in her brief role , gives a vivid portrayal of a women completely enamored with her own " charm " .  tim robbins registers in an even tinier part as a new age-type , a character played entirely for cartoon yuks , but still manages to work its desired comic effect .  the one exception in the acting department is a bit of a doozy , the main love interest played by danish actress iben hjejle ( mifune ) , who completely obliterates any trace of a danish accent , replacing it with a stilted american phonation .  i give her kudos for attempting such a contradictory role , but instead of being likeable , she comes across as rather robotic , and as such it's hard to see why cusack's character would be so obsessed with her especially when he has a beautiful , intelligent writer ( natasha gregson wagner ) potentially waiting in the wings .  this reminded me of say anything , where the charming cusack was paired with the charmless ione skye , and in midnight in the garden of good and evil where the poor bastard had to put up with alison eastwood ( whose unbelievably more wooden then father , clint for those " special people " whose wheels turn a little slower ) .  in fact cusack is rarely paired up with a personality that matches his , though i'd bet that if laura and natasha switched roles , the result would be more effective .  high fidelity works almost entirely on the strength of its characters and performances .  fears' direction is somewhat stilted , and the script is sometimes a little too ( and this is a word i'm beginning to hate to use but alas i must ) quirky for its own good ( i think i'll blame that on scott rosenberg , who judging from what he did with beautiful girls , con air , and things to do in denver while your dead , has his fingerprints all over the most irritating bits of this movie ) .  but cusack really does deserve an award , for being so damn ? ? ? cusackian .  i'm afraid that his talents are so understated that he may have to wait till his hip needs replacing to be offered such an award worthy of his considerable talent .  his character , rob ( whose sort of like an older , more bitter lloyd from say anything ) is funny and tragic without being pathetic , and that cusack can do all this , and still not imprint himself onto the minds of most audiences , is something of an achievement . 
neg@ i'm really starting to wonder about alicia silverstone .  sure , she is one of the most beautiful creatures on god's green earth ( second only to that movie critic at large guy ) , but when it comes to choosing what movies she stars in , she always strikes out .  the crush was a slow-moving , predictable piece of fluff .  hideaway was a horrific novel adaptation alicia had only a minor role in .  clueless was an annoying , unfunny waste of time .  and people have e-mailed me too , saying clueless is a good movie and that i'm the only one who doesn't like it .  one girl said if i'd seen the movie with " an open mind , " i would have enjoyed it .  nothing could be further from the truth .  i went into the theater expecting to love the movie .  the preview looked good and of course i'm crazymadinlove with alicia , but the movie was a bunch of bad jokes coming from whiny , unlikable characters .  almost everyone i saw the movie with felt the same way .  when we were walking out of the theater , one guy ( and it wasn't me ) yelled out , " that was the worst f$&#in' movie i've ever seen " and the rest of us had to laugh in agreement .  so last night i walked into the video store and saw alicia's pretty face on the cover of some made-for-video thriller called the babysitter .  i knew it would be bad but some inner compulsion i'll probably never understand made me rent it anyway .  what i got was 90 minutes of regret--the worst alicia silverstone movie ever .  and you already know from the last paragraph what the competition is like .  where to begin in criticizing this movie ?  the plot is a thin shred that moves slower than a glacier , the writing could have been done ( and for all we know it was ) by a ten year old , alicia is the star and she's still wasted in a movie that has no appeal whatsoever .  there is zero humor , zero suspense , zero drama and zero action , until the last ten minutes , when the story is needlessly and pointlessly concluded with a violent sequence .  zero plus zero plus zero plus zero equals zero .  so why does this movie get one star out of me ?  well , alicia spends twenty minutes of the movie in the bathtub .  and if it wasn't bubble bath , the babysitter would have instantly joined the ranks of our other four- star features , but you settle for what you can get .  alicia plays a babysitter who's spending friday night looking after two kids whose parents are out getting drunk at a cocktail party .  and of course anyone as beautiful as alicia automatically spends their friday nights at home ( at least that movie critic at large guy does ) .  as the movie trods along , we discover she's not only the mostly-silent star of the movie but also the object of every male character's fantasies ( and probably every male viewer's too ) .  the drunken father thinks she's just the thing to recapture his lost youth , her boyfriend lets his imagination run wild while spying on alicia from outside , even the prepubescent boy looks in on alicia through the bathroom keyhole while she's taking her bubble bath .  they even throw in the middle aged wife's fantasies about a male counterpart at the party .  not that any of us asked or ever even thought about seeing this 200+ pound woman in a black silk teddy .  at least none of the sex fanatasies ever leave the realm of the pg-rated .  in fact , i could imagine the babysitter becoming a cinemax late-night staple if not for the fact that there's absolutely no nudity in it .  so you can't call it a sex flick .  i've already pointed out that it can't fall under drama , comedy , thriller or action , so what do you classify the babysitter as ?  bad . 
pos@ upon taking a seat at the theater , and surveying the crowd , i soon realized that i was the only person under forty in the premises .  i'm twenty-two , but have been accused of looking sixteen .  yet as the film began , any consciousness of setting shifted to the home of five close-knit , yet troubled sisters .  director pat o'connor ( inventing the abbots , circle of friends ) weaves a quiet yet affecting tale of loss , need , and the bonds between five sisters .  the family is ruled by kate ( meryl streep ) , an unconsciously strict schoolteacher , who is completely conscious of the deterioration of her family .  there is very little background given to the viewer , as we are thrust into a tense but loving home .  squabbles take place one after the other , caused by years and years of history .  perhaps one of the best things about this film , is its naturalness .  no situation is over-wrought , and characters react as real people do , to real problems .  this probably is a result of the film being from a stage play .  the play was in turn is based on a time in the life of the playwright .  what seems to be an underlying theme are the pagan rituals and dances of peoples , both in lughnasa and africa .  in fact , dance seems to be the glue that holds the family together and most expressively shows their closeness .  legs tap , and bodies sway even in the midst of impending disaster .  only after the music stops , and the characters stand breathing heavily do we sense any trouble .  in the quiet after the music we muse that it's sad that music has to cease , and families falter .  the movie is framed by a scene of michael mundy , the narrator of the movie , as a young child flying a kite .  he trips over a bump and loses hold of his string , and the kite floats off farther into the distance .  drawn on the white diamond of the kite is a face that looks at once pained , and at another glance mischievous .  the mundy family itself follows a similar fate to that of the kite , and kate's hold of the family isn't strong enough to hold off the winds of change .  as michael stands , staring at his kite fly away , we hear the adult michael , looking back at the season that his world changed forever .  the movie is not overpowering , but it gives us a beautiful window into the life , love , and trouble of a household of lonely women .  note : this is the first movie review i've ever written , any responses on it would be greatly appreciated .   : ) 
neg@ 'bicentennial man' is a family film without any external motive with the exception of providing the minimum dose of entertainment .  chris columbus , the director who gave you " mrs . doubtfire " , plays on sentimental strings and mushy dialogue to make his point .  based on the short story by isaac asimov , it is supposed to be a science fiction story about a robot who wants to be human , which as you can imagine is very difficult .  starting in a not too distant future the film concentrates on a wealthy family that buys an android to help them with the house and children .  soon this robot , called andrew ( robin williams ) shows abilities that makes his owner mr . martin ( sam neill ) very curious .  andrew is interested in art and music , he " enjoys " making clocks , which clearly shows that he has genuine emotions .  it shows out that because of a small failure in the " electrical circuits " and " positronic brain " andrew has accidentally gained a soul .  this makes him unique and his evil creators worried .  then mr . martin decides to teach andrew all the things he wasn't programmed to do .  soon andrew wants to leave the house in pursuit of freedom , destiny and love .  this film can be described as a disney version of blade runner , a film that still shines as the biggest gem in the crown of science fiction .  ever since that film , the subject of humanity still stands as one big controversy .  what makes us human ?  the thoughts ?  the emotions ?  is it possible to become human ?  at what point can we say to a robot " now you are one of us " ?  these are very tough questions that require a serious and thurral approach .  it is obvious that columbus didn't take them very seriously .  when you think about it , this film is not really meditating on the question " when is a robot no longer a machine , but a human being ? " , but tells a story about racial discrimination and lack of understanding .  andrew is so complex and emotional from the very beginning that the audience immediately accepts him as a human being , and only the society has troubles with it .  in other words , it is as far from reality as from the academy awards .  further more , there are other annoying problems .  to this day no serious filmmaker has dared to speculate about the future in more than 50 years from now .  this has not been done for obvious reasons , because the filmmakers are well aware of the fact that they lack the knowledge and imagination to perform such a difficult task .  columbus is the first to have crossed that line .  the result is , as you might imagine , primitive , unrealistic and incredibly disappointing effort .  the world is simply frozen in time .  neither the society , fashion , culture or values have changed over 200 years .  mom is still working at the kitchen , doing the dishes .  when you think back to the late 17th century and then compare it to the world we live in today , you'll see a slightly bigger difference .  i am not saying that everything should change .  it is unlikely that the human rights will change , but it's even more unlikely that there will not be any progress in science , technology and fashion .  i suppose it's possible to watch this as a some sort of bizarre fairytale , but it's really hard .  robin williams is hidden behind c and speaking in a robotic way .  as always he does a decent job , as does sam neill .  but it doesn't really matter .  it is the sentimentality and length that turns this picture into a tiresome experience .  pretty much like last year's " meet joe black " , this is a primitive and unresolved story which is presented with a splendor and professionalism that it doesn't deserve .  great actors and a talented crew have worked hard to achieve something that will be instantly forgotten .  when isaac asimov wrote this story , the future seemed far away and magical .  everything seemed possible .  now is the future of asimov's time , and we know that it is not as magical and perfect as it seemed a long time ago .  for the same reasons that the young generation of today can not be amazed by julius verne's " 20 000 leagues under the sea " , so can't we accept this story as a potential reality .  let us hope that next year's " a . i . "  will be more rewarding . 
pos@ aliens ! ! well , that is what this movie is about .  computer generated aliens .  ok , the movie is not just about computer generated aliens .  it's about computer generated aliens and a secret organization known as mib .  if one wasn't green and running around the other would not exist as it's known .  the computer graphics in this movie are spectacular , they make you want to believe that aliens like the ones depicted exits .  since seeing this movie i have to agree concede that denis rodman is an alien , he simply has to be .  well , in all seriousness the aliens created here are not only of the monster variety but are also of the soft , squishy and cuddly kind .  just adds something of a lighter note to the movie where it could have become very dark .  along with aliens comes the humor and in a pretty decent way .  j , well soon to be j , a smart ass cop ( played by will smith ) runs down what he thinks is a would-be villain and gets some attention from the mib and k in particular .  k aims to recruit our poor j , but that is not the whole point of this movie .  the main duty of the mib is to police the extra terrestrials on earth who have chosen it as a home or a refuge .  that's also the main point of this movie : protect the earth from the scum of the galaxy .  some of the scum from space is awfully bad and just down right nasty .  color commentary abounds when forced to deal with alien scum and none other than will smith and tommy lee jones are there to deliver the punch .  the dialogue is witty to say the least .  this wittiness lets the movie flow well from scene to scene developing the characters to the extent needed for this movie .  tommy lee jones ( as k ) and will smith ( as j ) provide both the action and the comedy beautifully .  the characters they play don't seem to be wrong in any way nor does their performance as them .  i would have to say that k is more amusing than j , but what's one without the other .  both roles complemented each other very well and the script seemed to be written for these two actors .  the story also goes deep enough to provide a proper background so the audience is not totally clueless .  altogether good performances were put in by all the cast and the director blended everything marvelously with the necessary special effects to create a good movie .  a movie well worth seeing if you are up for some lighthearted and witty humor .  as most movies have their good things they also have their bad things .  the character development in this movie was not all that grand because it didn't need to be .  but if there was more character development and if there was some development of the alien characters that might have added quite considerable to the movie .  especially the evil alien , he did need some work .  though this could have been worked on , the movie was what it proposed to be a rather shallow and witty comedy .  that was achieved rather well , with some interesting commentary and observations .  a movie worth a view , but keep in mind what the movie is and if you are not fond of will smith's form of humor then i wouldn't go .  originally written after original release .  totally rewritten december 26 , 1997 
neg@ blatantly borrowing elements from 1993's " like water for chocolate " and 1991's " the butcher's wife , " " simply irresistible " attempts to be a whimsical romantic comedy but , more often than not , comes off as laughable , leaving you to wonder why rising star sarah michelle gellar ( t . v . 's " buffy , the vampire slayer " ) would choose such an obviously inept film project to waste her time on .  things get off to a bad start right from the onset as amanda ( sarah michelle gellar ) , a young woman who runs her late family's struggling new york restaurant , runs into a mystery man who forces a bushel of crabs on her and then vansihes into thin air .  while out shopping , she also meets tom ( sean patrick flanery ) , a charming , handsome man , who happens to be planning a ritzy restaurant for the department store he works for , and later when he decides to drop by her dive , called southern cross , for lunch , she somehow makes a delicious crab dish for him , even though she is known to not be a very good chef .  suddenly , amanda finds her restaurant , on the edge of foreclosure , rejuvenate to life as customer begin to swarm for her food , which strangely causes everyone immediate jubilation when it hits their mouths .  are amanda and tom destined to be together ?  and is it not just because of the magical food , but because they really , truly like each other ?  and what exactly is going on with the food she is making ?  does it have anything to do with that pesky crab she got that sits on the shelf in the kitchen somehow assisting her in her food preparation ?   " simply irresistible " is a ridiculous and just plain goofy romantic fantasy that's as flimsy as a slice of bologna .  it takes one joke---that people who eat the food are taken aback by it in most unusual ways---and recycles it over and over again until the film has reached an appropriate running time of 95 minutes .  add in a music montage every ten minutes ( these are actually the best scenes in the movie , which certainly tells you something about the film itself ) , and what you've got is an utterly empty , if not necessarily boring , excursion .  the cast of " simply irresistible " is fairly good , but it is the supporting characters who are the most interesting .  patricia clarkson ( 1998's " high art , " in which she played a drugged-out lesbian ) is a standout as tom's colleague , and is thankfully given a few funny lines of dialogue .  also of note is larry gilliard jr . , as amanda's cooking assistant and buddy , who is allowed to create a seemingly full character out of only a handful of scenes .  of the main stars , sarah michelle gellar is fine , but really does often look like she's struggling through the unmistakably clumsy material , and if sean patrick flanery plans on keeping a film career in the future , he has certainly got to pick better projects than this .  the bottom line is that " simply irresistible " is the exact opposite of its deprophesized title , and when the movie got to the point where the characters began to float in mid-air ( an unamusing plot device that was repeated in the stupid last scene ) , my mind checked out from the characters and the romance .  when i think about it in hindsight , i should have checked out in the very first scene , where the point of the action was for gellar to crawl under tables looking for a runaway mechanical crab .  now , that certainly is what i'd call magical ! 
pos@ [note that followups are directed to rec . arts . movies . current-films and rec . arts . movies . startrek . current  only , not to rec . arts . sf . movies .  -moderator]  star trek : first contact a film review by michael dequina copyright 1996 michael dequina  star trek : first contact ( pg-13 ) anyone familiar with the series of star trek movies knows of the " even-odd pattern " --the even-numbered installments of the series are good while the odd-numbered ones are , well , not-so-good .  the pattern continues with the new star trek : first contact , an energetic sci-fi adventure that ( coincidentally ? ) is the eighth entry in the hugely popular series .  in this first trek feature to feature only cast members from the late star trek : the next generation television series , captain jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) and the rest of the 24th-century crew of the starship enterprise--commander will riker ( jonathan frakes , who also directed ) , android lt . cmdr .  data ( brent spiner ) , lt . cmdr .  geordi laforge ( levar burton ) , lt . cmdr .  worf ( michael dorn ) , dr . beverly crusher ( gates mcfadden ) , and counselor deanna troi ( marina sirtis ) --travel back to 21st-century earth while doing battle with the borg , a race of cybernetic beings that share a collective mind with the borg queen ( alice krige ) .  the borg intend to alter history and assimilate all of humankind into their race--starting with the earth-orbiting crew of the enterprise and a 21st century stowaway ( alfre woodard ) .  this is an interesting plotline that is sure to mesmerize trekkers everywhere and engage everyone else , but , unfortunately , it only makes up the star trek half of the script by brannon braga and ronald d . moore .  the other half of the title--first contact--refers to a subplot that takes place on 21st-century earth , where riker , troi , and laforge meet legendary scientist zephram cochran ( james cromwell ) , who is about to embark on the first warp speed flight in human history , which directly leads to the first contact with extraterrestrials .  while this story does tie into the main plot and pays off interestingly in the end , it is nowhere near as involving or exciting as the borg battles on the enterprise .  not helping matters is the tiresome cochran character , an eccentric whose drunken schtick starts out funny but becomes too one-note after a while .  in the end , though , the first contact subplot doesn't detract from the enjoyment of the film as a whole .  the story is typical sci-fi fantasy , but the conviction of the cast--most notably the always-phenomenal stewart--makes you believe and care .  frakes , making his feature directorial debut , keeps the action swiftly rolling along and delivers the action goods , even upping the violence a notch ( this is the first trek film to bear a pg-13 rating ) to greater effect .  st : fc has a bigger budget than the last trek outing , the middling star trek generations , and it definitely shows on screen--the production design and especially visual and makeup effects are outstanding ( in particular those involving the borg queen ) .  braga and moore's mostly sharp script will please both trek devotees and the rest ; the references to the borg storyline in the tv series , the continuity with the previous film ( e . g .  the ongoing saga of data's emotion chip ) , and a fleeting star trek : voyager crossover will make trekkers squeal with delight , but such points are made easily accessible to those less familiar to the trek mythos .  paramount was reportedly worried about the staying power of its trek franchise with the next generation cast now carrying the helm .  based on the entertaining success that is star trek : first contact , i'd say the studio has nothing to worry about ( at least not until this cast retires and the crew of the wan star trek : deep space nine takes over . . . ) . 
neg@ _dirty_work_ has a premise of deliciously mean-spirited potential .  mitch weaver ( norm macdonald ) and his lifelong best friend sam mckenna ( artie lange ) are losers in life : they were constantly picked on in school , and now they cannot hold regular jobs .  but as the trailer goes , " there is one thing mitch weaver is good at--revenge . "  so he and sam parlay their unmatched skill in getting-even schemes into a marketable revenge-for-hire business called dirty work inc .  this should be the groundwork for a wonderfully wicked black comedy , but for a film called _dirty_work_ , what ensues is rather clean of spirit .  in fact , what makes mitch and sam start up their business is not a giddy desire to give bullies a taste of their own medicine , but rather a more sappy reason : sam's father ( jack warden ) needs a heart transplant , and in order for him to move at the top of the recipient list , his compulsively betting doctor ( chevy chase ) asks the guys for $50 , 000 to pay off his bookie .  so for all the scheming that goes on , beneath every underhanded plot is--gasp ! --a  heart , which undercuts the inherent nastiness of the premise .  not that there isn't a lot of nastiness on display--there is , but of a different sort .  there are frequent sexual references , most prominently in the form of prostitutes and sam's impotent father's ongoing lust for them .  and for a film rated pg-13 , director bob saget ( yes , that bob saget , of _full_house_ and _america's_funniest_home_videos_ fame ) and writers frank sebastiano , fred wolf , and macdonald himself , stretch the boundaries of good taste rather far--arguably a bit too much so ( was not one , but two separate instances of sodomy between animals really necessary ? ) .  but the issue , of course , is not so much of taste as it is humor--as in , is it funny or not ?  the answer is a resounding no .  it's not that macdonald isn't a funny guy .  he was one of the more consistently funny performers on _saturday_night_live_ before his much-talked-about firing , and his dry brand of smartass wit translates well to the big screen ; it also doesn't hurt that he's a natural , likable screen presence .  he is able to give some of his lines a nice acid touch , but , for the most part , the oneliners , as written , are flat , and the broad slapstick gags just don't work ( one running gag has him being literally tossed out of buildings--a real riot ) .  still , macdonald's few shining moments are just about the only moments the film has .  the late chris farley , as hysterical as he ever was , is amusing in a cameo role , but , as a whole , the supporting players are amateurish and seemingly free from any directorial guidance .  saget tries to juice up the proceedings with kitschy cameos by gary coleman , adam sandler , and john goodman , but their minimal novelty value cannot prevent _dirty_work_ from sputtering to the end of its brief 81-minute running time .  the film closes on a sad note of desperation , an indulgent reel of outtakes from which only those involved in the production would derive any amusement .  come to think of it , i cannot imagine anyone but those involved in the production to find much amusement in the entirety of _dirty_work_ . 
pos@ roberto benigni is a clown in the tradition of chaplin and keaton .  this italian film star , best known in the united states for the poorly received son of the pink panther , has done the near impossible by creating a comic fable about the holocaust .  but benigni's life is beautiful ( la vita e bella ) is not so much a story of the holocaust as it uses that monstrous outrage against humanity as a backdrop to tell a story of familial love , devotion and sacrifice .  the movie starts out as a typical slapstick farce with benigni's guido arriving in the small tuscan town of arezzo in 1938 to fulfill his dream of owning a bookstore .  like many of the slapstick clowns who preceded him , most notably the almost-forgotten harry langdon , benigni's guido has a childlike innocence .  he ignores the growing anti-semitism of the fascist government .  instead , guido ardently falls in love and persues dora , a local school teacher who already is engaged to a local fascist official .  in benigni's tightly wound script this is the same fascist official with whom guido had an earlier unfortunate - yet slapstick - encounter .  guido wins dora .  they marry .  fast forward about five years .  guido , dora , and their 5-year-old son , giosue ? ( giorgio cantarini ) are a happy family .  guido has finally fulfilled his dream of opening a bookstore .  but racial and anti-semitic tensions are on the rise in italy , and guido has determined to do his best to shield his son from these harsh realities .  the task becomes even the more difficult when the family is deported to a concentration camp .  here , guido must use all his skill and imagination not only to shield his son , but to keep him from being exterminated .  it is at this juncture in life is beautiful may tend to offend those whom the holocaust has touched .  for the scenes in the concentration camp lack the horror , the pain , the unimaginable suffering of a schindler's list .  true , many italian jews were not deported until the war was nearly over , and most were not sent to the death camps , but to work camps where they were used as slave labor .  unlike steven spielberg , benigni is not out to tell the story of the holocaust .  his story is about family and the lengths a parent will go to protect a child .  for guido , to save his son , transforms the entire experience into an elaborate game .  giosue ? must follow the rules without question to amass 1 , 000 points .  the winner takes home a tank .  therefore , guido tells him , he must remain hidden in the barracks .  he cannot make a sound nor allow the guards to see him .  guido explains this during a hilarious sequence when a german guard barks the camp instructions to the newly arrived inmates .  guido , lying that he understands german and can translate for his fellow prisoners , instead lays down the rules for his son to allow him a chance to survive .  throughout their imprisonment , guido's quick thinking continually keeps his son from harm's way .  ultimately , the allies rescue the camp .  in a poignant scene , giosue ? comes out of hiding just as an american tank rolls into the compound .  the boy goes wide-eyed with wonderment and delight , thinking he has won the game .  the price for his victory is most high .  benigni has succeeded in using the blackest moment in human history to prove that even in hell , a ray of hope and salvation can penetrate the darkness .  life is beautiful is a fantasy , a fable .  it is not to be taken as a record of the holocaust .  those who object to it are missing its point .  and that is simply where there is hope , where there is life and where there is love , the spark of humanity will never be extinguished .  committed to lifelong learning through effective communication 
neg@ whether or not i would be considered a trekker probably depends on whom you would ask .  i have been a fan of both the original series and its recently retired follow-up , as well as the even- numbered entries in the film series .  however , i have never been one of those folks who store away trek minutiae and get into debates over the relative merits of spock vs . data .  somewhere along the line , the " star trek " film series began to seem more and more directed at those in the latter category , and star trek : generations may be the natural conclusion of this direction .  its production values may be high , but the writing is frequently appalling , and instead of a script has a collection of references , in-jokes and ill-defined characters .  generations opens in the late 23rd century , where members of the original enterprise crew , including captain james t . kirk ( william shatner ) , are present for the christening of the latest ship to bear that name .  no sooner is it out on its maiden voyage than a distress signal brings them to the nexus , a mysterious ribbon of energy .  among those rescued from the nexus is long-lived alien dr . soran ( malcolm mcdowell ) , but he is none-too-pleased at being back in the real world .  seventy-eight years later , soran is still trying to get back to the nexus , and again encounters an enterprise , this one led by captain jean-luc picard ( patrick stewart ) .  soran's plan involves destroying a star with an inhabited planet , and the only hope for saving 230 million people is the historic meeting of two enterprise captains .  i don't think it is an insult to fans of " star trek " to suggest that to a certain extent , the particulars of a plot are not really the most important elements in a " trek " film .  it's about a chance to visit with old friends , and if they are involved in a truly interesting story it can be considered gravy .  but even that interpretation assumes that characterization has to be consistent , and in generations that just doesn't happen .  data ( brent spiner ) is particularly victimized by this sloppy writing .  in the film's major sub-plot , data decides to use a chip which will give him human emotions , a chip he has had in his possession for over a year .  what is his motivation for taking this drastic and perhaps dangerous step ?  he doesn't get a joke .  once the chip is in place , spiner gets to have a lot of fun with data's new emotions , but the point is that he's no longer the data we know .  if the rest of the " next generation " cast fares any better , it's only because they're on the screen so little that they're simply window dressing .  but then again , this story isn't really about the new crew .  it's about kirk and picard , the cowboy and the politician , sharing the screen .  the huge surprise is that william shatner blows patrick stewart away .  perhaps because he knows this is his last go-round in the part that made him a legend , shatner looks like he's having the time of his life ; stewart , on the other hand , borders on the deferrential , and is saddled with the same lackluster motivations as everyone else in the cast .  stewart's edginess is indicative of what may be a very bad sign for paramount's hopes to turn the new cast into the same kind of franchise the original cast was : these are clearly the not ready for big screen players .  by contrast , the prologue which features scotty ( james doohan ) and chekhov ( walter koenig ) is the highlight of the film .  these characters have become part of the popular mythology , and when they take over the enterprise in a moment of distress , it's a moment of high energy .  only thirty years of history can create a moment like that , and that's time this new crew doesn't have .  it certainly doesn't help that the plot they are stuck in is so convoluted and badly constructed that you need to leave a trail of bread crumbs to find your way out again .  it's also loaded with little gags all aimed at those who are familiar enough with the series to turn to all their friends in a shared nudge of recognition .  i wonder whether anyone who is coming in cold to the " trek " universe at this point would be anything but baffled and bored by what is going on .  and what a waste of malcolm mcdowell , who could have been a great monomanical villain but should have been given a much more compelling reason for his obsession .  there are plenty of details both scientific and of continuity to pick at , but to do so would be to ignore generations' major flaws .  however , i would like to make one recommendation : seatbelts .  not just for the enterprise crew , although you'd think by the 24th century space travel wouldn't involve rolling around on the floor during a battle .  no , i think the audience might need them more .  this journey is one bumpy ride . 
pos@ one of the sweetest tales to ever be made , it's a wonderful life isn't perfect , but its good natured charm and beautiful performances light up the screen with glorious results .  probably the greatest " feel-good " film of all time , it's a wonderful life aims for the heart , and strikes with a golden arrow .  on christmas eve , george bailey ( stewart ) is being prayed for by many in the small town of bedford falls .  you see , george is in trouble , and he has always helped others who needed it .  this one time , however , god answers his prayers , and sends down the lovable guardian angel clarence ( travers ) to try and save george .  clarence has got his own problems , however .  clarence is an angel without his wings , and each time the bell rings , the wings pass him by .  the bailey case is a way for him to earn those magical wings and become a true angel .  but before clarence can save george , he first has to go through a cliffs notes version of george bailey's life .  we see george sacrificing his hearing to save his brother's life , sacrificing his college education to save the family business , sacrificing his dream of living far away to support his brother , and even sacrificing his life to make sure his brother is happy working somewhere else .  when the bank his family owns is in trouble , george gives away his honeymoon money to make sure the bank isn't sold to the evil mr . potter ( barrymore ) , who wants nothing less than to get the baileys out of bedford falls .  one christmas , potter gets his chance .  uncle billy bailey ( mitchell ) loses $8 , 000 of the bank's money .  without the money , the bank must close down .  george is stuck in a tremendous bind , and contemplates suicide .  clarence , the faithful servant , is there just to pick him up , and to show him what bedford would be like without george .  this is all a lead-in to the very famous last scene , where george finally sees what true happiness is about .  it's a wonderful life does have its faults .  the movie is beginning to feel dated in the details , especially in the treatment of women and men .  the sex roles in the film are weirdly out of place in the 90's , like something out of a revisionist look .  all the men drink too much and slap their wives too much during some portions of the film .  there are , however , endearing moments in all of this .  capra puts in just enough humor mocking the sex roles of the 50's to make the movie remarkably enjoyable .  the story is hackneyed , and the ending feels , well , a little too sugarish .  there's this uneasy feeling of sugar over everything , especially the sequences where george is either in trouble , or helping somebody .  it's a little too nice for my liking , at times .  there is , however , enough humor , enough wit , and enough of jimmy stewart to get the movie through the middle part , which would be the most difficult .  but watching it's a wonderful life is never boring or difficult : it's always interesting , right until the finale , which , for all its sugar , makes delightful sense and is beautifully done .  capra does have his monumental cliches , but the actors relish them and overplay everything to perfection .  donna reed is perfect as the loving , obeidient wife , and lionel barrymore is gloriously grump as mr . potter .  everyone else is magnificent , including bert and ernie ( ward bond and frank faylen ) .  there is a general sense of goodness , as if everyone in the film knows that they are making a great film , and they relish that .  stewart , however , is the king of all of this .  he is sometimes awkward , especially when saying " merry christmas " to all objects , animate or inanimate .  but he is james stewart , and he's lovably delightful throughout the film .  have i complained ?  i shouldn't have .  this is a really good movie .  no , this is a great movie .  better yet , this is a phenomenal movie .  there is a reason classics are invented : to make sure that people will always have great movies to aid them in their quest for living life .  this is one of those films .  it is a " feel-good " movie , something people complain a little too much about .  but capra's reworking of " a christmas carol " is the greatest christmas movie of all time .  there , i've said it .  i have to admit , the first time i saw this , i saw it with my family , including my 11 year old kid sister .  they all loved it .  they loved george , his wife , his troubles , and the beautiful ending .  is it a little too sugar-coated ?  maybe .  no matter .  this is a film that should be watched time and time again , with families around a coffee table , and eggnog on the plate .  it is a film that just makes you feel good about life , family , and hope .  it is the perfect christmas film , flaws and all .  it is frank capra's greatest acheivement , and that really does say a lot .  for about 121 out of 129 minutes , this movie is flawless .  the rest can be excused : no film is perfectly flawless .  i can't get over how much i love this movie , and how much you will , after watching it , digesting it , and sitting with your family , appreciating how special life really is . 
neg@  " love to kill " starts off aimlessly and gets progressively less coherent as time passes .  at the outset , the movie appears to be about tony danza , who's an illegal distributor of guns , trying to establish a relationship with an unsuspecting woman .  danza sets up a double date with her , her sister , and a collegue of his .  everything seems to be going well , until the sister accidentally dies by falling down a set of stairs .  much confusion and mahem ensues , as the death is covered up and other associates of danza's begin to emerge , all after one thing or another .  sound confusing ?  it is .  i think what the filmmakers were trying to do is take the standard crime movie and throw in a little humour and levity .  in some respects , it works .  but the majority of the film is a convoluted and confusing mess .  characters keep popping up with no explanation , demanding money for deals that occur off-screen .  the only aspect of the movie that actually works is the budding relationship between danza and the dead woman's sister .  but so little time is devoted to this part of the story , we never really become too familiar with these characters , and because of this , we don't really care what happens to them .  well , i didn't , at least .  one thing i will give the movie is that it's a complete departure for tony danza .  here's a guy , because of his many sitcom roles , who's ingrained in the consciousness as a nice guy who always does the right thing .  here , he plays a man who's just looking out for himself , and if that means he needs to kill in order to save his own skin , so be it .  i was very impressed by his performance , and within minutes of the start of the film , i had forgotten all about his good-guy persona .  michael madsen is also good as an associate of danza's who spends half the movie buddying up to him and the other half trying to kill him .  like i said , it's not exactly a linear storyline .   " love to kill " should be praised for trying to do something different with the well worn crime genre , but it's just too bad that the story doesn't really add up to much .  the stars deserved better , and so did the audience . 
pos@ after the terminally bleak reservoir dogs and the brutally violent pulp fiction , jackie brown seems like something of a light-hearted departure for quentin tarantino .  it's more of a ho-hum heist story with characters that speak the tarantino language .  luckily , his showcase of actors convert every morsel of possible enjoyment onto the screen , and jackie brown has no trouble entertaining the average viewer .  the story introduces us to a street-wise black woman named jackie brown ( pam grier ) , a flight attendant who smuggles money and drugs from one destination to another .  she works for a bottom-of-the-barrel airline and receives a minimal salary .  but one day , she is picked up by a pair of federal officials ( including michael keaton as the tough-nosed ray nicolet ) , and found with a handsome load of cash and a small bag of smuggled dope .  jackie is working for a weapons dealer named ordell ( samuel l . jackson ) , who pays her bail money but suspects her of tipping off the feds about their operation .  soon jackie and ordell are plotting a way to smuggle $500 , 000 through to them under nicolet's nose , with the help of ordell's oaf of a partner ( robert de niro ) and drugged-out lady friend ( bridget fonda ) .  also entering the picture is a bail-bondsman named max cherry ( robert forster ) , who takes a liking to jackie and agrees at one point to make the situation even more complicated ( how i won't say ) .  the big drop-off is undoubtedly the high point of jackie brown , in which numerous double-crosses take place and many clothing store bags ( filled with cash ) switch hands .  it's unfortunate that tarantino takes his sweet time getting there , and doesn't offer anything extremely compelling while doing so .  there are , as always , amusing exchanges between characters .  the funniest repartee is between de niro and fonda , as he becomes annoyed with her constant bickering while making fun of his iq , or lack thereof .  the most interesting relationship is between max and jackie .  a 56-year old white bail bondsman and a 44-year old black flight attendant with believable chemistry ?  you've got to commend the acting .  jackie brown is a seriously dragged-out exercise enlivened by such fine acting .  the film clocks in at a lengthy 2 hours , 35 minutes .  tarantino's talky style manages to hold your attention heavily , but there are more than a few dramatic lapses and crucial lulls in the storyline .  also , fans of the director should be prepared for a lighter side to appear .  jackie brown has four major shootings , and two of those take place mostly off-screen , so don't be expecting a typical tarantino bloodbath .  you can expect frequent foul language , mostly coming way of ordell , who ( much to the dismay of spike lee ) uses the `n' word as part of his regular vocabulary .  the acting is the glue that holds everything together .  grier , making a sudden comeback from her reign in the 1970's , is more than adequate for the title character .  in fact , she's flat-out great .  another comeback comes from former tv star robert forster , who does a grand job as max cherry , and is perfectly cast in doing so .  michael keaton makes his presence felt , albeit in small but dignified moments , and de niro is ideal in playing the lug-head who goes over the edge .  speaking of that , bridget fonda has relatively little to do as ordell's bikini-clad beach babe , and yet she manages to look fairly occupied .  there's not a single sign of misplaced dialogue or snubbed line throughout the entire movie .  which is a life-saver for mr . tarantino .  the story barely holds together in the meantime , and we merely get a small tremor whenever there should be a defeaning earthquake .  but oh well .  jackie brown manages to be an enjoyable detour from quentin tarantino , even if it is lacking the glaring and original bite of his previous work .  let's just hope that the director hasn't gone soft on us . 
neg@ a movie like mortal kombat : annihilation works ( and must be reviewed on ) multiple levels .  first , there's the rampant usage of randian subtext that pervades the entire movie .  but occasionaly , almost as if making an ironic , self-depreciating remark , the movie tosses in clearly marxist imagery .  no no . . .  just kidding .  had you going there for a moment , didn't i ?  in all seriousness however , and to be fair to the movie , it * is * necessary to provide two viewpoints : that of a movie watcher unfamiliar ( or only marginally familiar ) with the whole mortal kombat phenomenon , and that of a fan of the first movie and/or a fan of the games .  the first movie ( mortal kombat ( 1995 ) ) concerned itself with a martial arts tournament that would decide the fate of earth ( and it's 5 billion inhabitants ) .  the mortals won , and in theory this should have prevented the emperor shao khan from taking over the earth .  unfortunately , shao khan was a poor loser , and the very final scene in mortal kombat showed him arriving anyway , ready to take over the planet , as our heroes assumed a fighting stance .  the first movie was extraordinarily entertaining for those ( like myself ) who are fans of the game .  i'd even go so far as to say that many folks who didn't know about the game probably enjoyed the movie .  the writers and directors knew the limitations of both their cast and of the basic story itself , and they didn't try to overachieve .  there were a lot of really cool fight scenes ( with really cool accompanying music ) , intersperesed with some distracting ( but ultimately non-intrusive ) bits of fluff passing itself off as a plot .  and , as we know , the movie was a smashing success at the box office .  mortal kombat : annihilation picks up precisely where that movie left off , with some introductory exposition to clue in those who may not have seen the first movie .  shao khan has decided that he's going to take over the earth * anyways * , and to hell with some silly rule about mortals winning the tournament .  thereafter follows approximately 85 minutes of film that alternates between being confused , being trite , being silly , and being just plain stupid .  one gets the general impression that the producers of the movie thought " hey , that last movie was such a success that we can get more money and make a * real * movie now . "  too bad they didn't simply stick with the formula from the first movie .  i could write volumes about the things that are wrong with this picture , but here are the high points :   * the acting is truly bad .  sandra hess ( playing the sonya blade character ) is particularly execrable , especially in scenes where she tries to convince us that she loved johnny cage ( a character from the first movie who gets greased at the beginning of this movie ) .   * in one of the worst pieces of mis-casting i think i've * ever * seen , james remar plays raiden , the god of thunder .  in the first movie , christopher lambert played raiden and played his character as though he was in on the joke : a french actor playing a japanese thunder god being revered by chinese mystics .  i generally like it when actors are cast against type ( tim " tiny " lister , jr . being cast as the president of the u . s . in the fifth element , for example ) , and remar has always been one of my favorite " utility " actors but he's so totally wrong for this part that he doesn't even have the luxury of amused self-awareness .   * there are too many characters that are introduced as being potentially important , but then never seen again .   * there are a number of completely meaningless story sidetracks , including a muddled scene where liu kang ( robin shou ) seeks out nightwolf ( litefoot ) , has a mystical hallucination , and then wanders off with jade ( irina pantaeva ) .  for these reasons ( and many others ) , i can only give the movie a 2 . . .   . . . unless you're a huge fan of the games and/or the first movie .  in that case , the following critiques also apply :   * sandra hess , while being an even worse actress than bridgette wilson ( who played sonya blade in the first movie ) , is much more convincing as a fighter .  wilson looked like she was simply mimicing some movements taught to her by the fight choreographer .  hess looks like she actually knows some martial arts , and puts together a much more believable fight scene .   * in the fights , each of the characters does at least * one * thing they do in the game ( and often more ) .  sonya does her " kiss of death , " jax does his " earthquake , " liu kang does his " animality , " and so on .  a big bonus for those of us who were looking for similar moves in the first movie and found them only rarely .   * there aren't as many fight scenes in this movie as there were in the first , because the folks making the movie mistakenly try to hang a more robust plot in between .  silly , silly folks .  and the lamest fight involved two of the women in what turns into a mud-wrestling match .  lame and so obviously sexist even i ( politically incorrect , for the most part ) noticed and remarked upon it .   * the special effects are generally better , except for the final fight scene between the emporer and liu kang in which both perform their " animalities . "  motaro and sheeva are both more convincing and lifelike than goro was in the first movie .  for folks like myself who loved the first movie and enjoy the games , i give this a 5 .  you'll probably like it , but not nearly as much as you liked the first one . 
pos@ `run lola run' , a german import that gained a stellar reputation at the sundance film festival , is a dazzling and kinetic film that deals with the subjects of fate and chance .  for a berserk and retroactive 81 minutes of non-stop movement , we follow a fiery-haired heroine named lola ( franka potente ) as she sprints to save her boyfriend from the clutches of drug dealers .  lola has roughly twenty minutes to somehow retrieve 100 , 000 marks in time to save manni ( moritz bleibtreu ) from being killed by the dealer .  but , in something of a pseudo- `groundhog day' approach , director tom tykwer gives lola three separate chances to best navigate her way toward the goal .  in these trio of episodes , we gradually learn the unique effects of fate , for even if tiny changes are made in lola's journey , the future can be seriously altered .  `run lola run' is an experience like `fight club' or `the matrix' , in that each film takes you through a super-charged wormhole of bending reality in surreal and exciting ways .  in addition , all three movies have a visual style that separates them from the rest of the pack .  `lola' is no exception , with stylish quick-flash camera work and cinematography that serves as scintillating eye candy from the get-go .  tykwer's world is a landscape of mood and color , with brilliant shades of red and pink ( including lola's fiery hair ) used as effective symbolism throughout .  with it's visual style and mind-blowing pace , `run lola run' is one of the more invigorating movies of the year .  even more so when considering the fact it's all stuffed rather nonchalantly into an 81-minute time period .  as a heroine , potente does little more than run wildly through the streets ( as the title suggests ) , but she has a certain flair and charisma .  her exemplary running form made me wonder if she is actually a track star .  meanwhile , bleibtreu does an equally fantastic job of bringing the dopey but passionate manni to life .  both actors perform beyond the call of duty .  the dazzling fun comes from predicting what each episode holds in store for lola , and the outcome is ultimately rewarding - several twists and turns are unique and unexpected .  the other characters lola runs into ( both purposely and inadvertently ) include her banker father ( herbert kraup ) and a friendly security guard ( armin rohde ) , but aside from the two leads , no one has more than a few minutes of screen time .  additional stars that couldn't possibly be ignored are cinematographer frank griebe and editor mathilde bonnefroy , who are both responsible for the film's eye-catching visual elegance .  `run lola run' is subtitled , so be prepared to meet the challenge of reading the lightning-fast dialogue - occasional sections of it are especially fast .  this is only one of the minor chores involved in watching .  the other is the sense that we never get to really recognize who the real people are in this hyperactive situation .  most are just chess pieces in tykwer's elaborate game of visual presentation , and he never really makes a significant move with any .  but , the average viewer is likely to be so absorbed in the action that few will realize the lack of potency in a few elements of the screenplay .  a few petty gripes aside , this film is a wild , exhilarating ride that turns maniacally on its wheel of originality .  most people believe foreign films are mainly boring , talky character studies .  perhaps `run lola run' will recharge their batteries .  not only does this film offer insight into some intriguing questions of fate and destiny , it also delivers a white-knuckle visual rollercoaster ride of overwhelming audacity .  like how the experience must have been for the persistent title character , `run lola run' is exhausting . 
neg@ a backdrop of new year's eve in 1981 would seem to lend itself to a great party movie .  the decor possibilities are endless - disco balls had yet to migrate into the dark corners of the attic , big hair was worth its weight in aquanet , and the louder the fashion , the better the look .  but despite this setting , these details and a soundtrack that includes some 40-plus irresistible hits from the early days of the me decade , something is inherently wrong with " 200 cigarettes . "  a better title for this nostalgic mess would be " 50 missed opportunities . "  what is it that makes this retro-comedy such a downer ?  it's certainly not the cast , which includes enough hot , young talent for several movies .  there's courtney love , cementing her reputation as a serious actress ; christina ricci , hot off her shoulda-been-nominated turn in " the opposite of sex " ; paul rudd , who gets even more appealing with every role ; kate hudson , inheriting some fine acting genes from mom goldie hawn ; and affleck brothers ben and casey , two of the best things about " good will hunting . "  perhaps the question is this : what drew these and other immensely talented actors to such a dreary project ?  maybe it looked good on paper .   " 200 cigarettes " is composed of a series of vignettes , as various characters make their way through new york's festively decorated east village to a holiday bash thrown by a jittery bundle of nerves named monica ( martha plimpton , all dressed up in her best cyndi lauper ) .  among the potential guests are likeable cad kevin ( rudd ) and his best friend lucy ( love ) , busy bickering over his recent break-up , and a clumsy but seemingly charming bartender ( ben affleck ) who opens his mouth only to spew forth bad pick-up lines .  more subplots - _many_ more - dot the big picture , but those listed above are the only ones worth noting in a positive light .  all the other story tangents are as frazzled as a cokehead trying to solve a rubick's cube .  ricci and gaby hoffman grate as two ronkonkoma gals ( the kind that have trouble pronouncing hard consonants ) out to have a high time in the big city .  infamously acerbic comedienne janeane garofalo is wasted in what amounts to a several-scene cameo .  hudson , as a pretty-in-pink klutz recently devirginized by a reprehensible ladies' man ( jay mohr ) , trips , pukes and gets smeared with dog poop .  are we laughing yet ?  the film boils down to a mixture of the good , the bad and the gaudy , with the latter two overtaking the former .  game performances - especially by love , rudd and plimpton - are almost shot down by the bizarrely colorful parts and a constantly roving focus , here a combination that mostly sputters when it should crackle .  too many sidetracks rate as uninteresting and have little payoff until a lengthy final montage where we find out many of the performers served as one night stands for each other .  if this is " 200 cigarettes , " then get me 200 nicotine patches . 
pos@ a thriller set in modern day seattle , that marked marky mark's migration from the " good vibrations " and " calvin klein undie ad " guy , to mark wahlberg , thespian-at-large , and a mighty good one at that .  plot : boy ( wahlberg ) meets girl ( witherspoon ) .  boy likes girl .  girl likes boy .  boy and girl begin dating .  parents of girl aren't crazy about the boy .  girl steps to boy's defense .  family problems occur .  girl learns more about the boy .  boy goes nuts .  fun ensues .  critique : ever wonder what would happen if your better half turned out to be someone other than the person that you had come to cherish and love ?  well , if you ever have , then this film is definitely for you .  it isn't the most original premise in the world , but it is handled pretty well here , and pretty quickly for that matter ( a speedy 90 minutes ) .  i think one of the main reasons this film worked for me is the groundbreaking performance by mark wahlberg ( of boogie nights infamy ( 7 . 5/10 ) .  he completely captured all the goodness , and badness , of the main character of this film , and always kept me wanting to see more and more of him ( his performance scored him a solid nomination from his core target audience , as " best villain " at the 1997 mtv movie awards ) .  the soundtrack is also very effective in this setting , and of course , the slutty performance by alyssa milano is something we could all indulge in ( look for the nice bikini and butt shots . . . if  you're into that kind of thing , that is : ) .  i didn't much care for the father/david relationship which seemed to be a little too contrived , but for the most part , i was really into this movie .  then again , daddy dearest did have one of the coolest lines in the movie when his wife is asking him what the " big deal " was about his daughter dating david .  his reply : " the big deal is that the guy gives me the creeps , and the girl is my daughter . "  good point .  all in all , the movie kicked some fun ass , mindless as it was , and effectively demonstrated every parent's worst nightmare .  mind you , i still can't tell if reese witherspoon is good looking or a douchebag , but hey , life goes on .  and on a personal note , we finally decided to add some taco meat onto our nacho fiesta of usual , and let me tell you all . . . it was a flaming success ! !  another firm recommendation by joe schmoe !  little known facts : director james foley was the man responsible for the critically acclaimed glengarry glenross ( 8/10 ) back in 1992 , at close range ( 7 . 5/10 ) in 1986 , and even directed an episode of twin peaks in 1990 .  mark wahlberg stands 5 " 9 , is born in massachusetts , dropped out of highschool ( later got his ged ) , and was convicted of several minor felonies before starting his career as the lead singer of marky mark and the funky bunch .  his brother is donnie wahlberg of new kids on the block fame .  he is also testing the waters on the acting front . 
neg@ a new entry in the " revisionist history " genre of filmmaking , dick suggests that two not-too-bright teenage girls are the cause of the uncovering of the nation's biggest presidential scandal .  kirsten dunst and michelle williams star betsy and arlene , who while trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene's watergate hotel room , accidentally stumble across g . gordon liddy ( played dead-on by harry shearer ) and the infamous break-in .  when they recognize liddy later on during a white house field trip , they are ushered into a conference room , questioned as to what they know , and leave as official presidential dog walkers .  the girls manage to unwittingly uncover every bit of the watergate scandal while performing their duties , but have no clue as to what they are getting involved with .  when they discover that nixon ( another dead-on performance by dan hedaya , who actually favors nixon slightly , unlike anthony hopkins ) has been abusive to checkers , the presidential dog , thanks to the conversations that he always recorded , they quit and become disillusioned .  during a prank phone call the girls make to woodward and bernstein , events are set into motion that eventually lead to the president's resignation .  this film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward and bernstein arguing with each other on an obvious larry king-type talk show ( featuring a cameo by french stewart ) about revealing the identity of " deep throat " .  from there , we are subjected to bodily function humor and just about every bad " dick " joke one can derive from this type of supposed comedy .  at one point , the girls are having to scream over a high school band playing on the steps of the lincoln memorial .  the band manages to stop right as dunst screams " you have to stop letting dick run your life ! "  much to the horror of everyone standing within earshot .  several other variations on this wordplay surface all throughout the film .  if this movie had been smarter i would have been less likely to fault it's juvenile bathroom humor , but it's not .  the film was apparently made for relatively younger people because every major player in the watergate scandal is introduced and shoved down the audience's throat in the least subtle way possible .  i don't recall oliver stone's nixon having to pander to it's audience , but of course that film wasn't a comedy aimed squarely at a 13-20 year-old film going audience .  the only redeeming thing about this movie is it's remarkable supporting cast .  i wanted to see more of ferrell and mcculloch's woodward and bernstein .  those two characters are the sole basis for my rating .  i wish they had been given more screen time , but unfortunately , they are only relegated to the final half-hour .  their constant bickering and fighting over trying to get the story are a major highlight , especially mcculloch's constant thwarting of ferrell's attempts to gather information from the girls ( who , in the course of the narrative are revealed as deep throat , so named thanks to an ill planned trip to a porno theater by betsy's brother ) .  the other members of the cast are excellent in their portrayals of their particular characters , but are given nothing to work with .  i'd like to see the same cast portray these characters in a script more suited towards their comedic abilities .  as for the two leads , dunst and williams can definitely do better .  they come off as what could best be described as romy and michele : the early years in this particular film , a highly dubious distinction at best .  stay through the first half of the end credits though , to see an interesting scene involving dunst and williams suggestively sucking on lollipops emblazoned with the title of the movie .  an excellent idea marred by poor execution , dick could have been a great movie .  less of the juvenile humor and more of the smarter comedy displayed by the woodward and bernstein scenes , could have made this film a wonderful satire of the nixon presidency as seen through the eyes of two naive fifteen year olds .  as it stands though , dick offers nothing but what filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as " dick and poopie " jokes .  and that , to me , does not make a funny movie .  [pg-13] 
pos@  ( dimension films , " scream 2 " 's distributor , has asked press to say extremely little -- if anything -- about the film's twisty plot .  that's no easy task considering the wit that deserves to be mentioned here , but i will do my best to be vague ( now , there's a first ) . )   " the first one was [good] , but all the rest sucked , " said a cinematically-savvy teen in last winter's wes craven thriller " scream , " her statement referring to the films of the " nightmare on elm street " series but really putting down franchise overkill in general .  the comment certainly carries clout : for every truly great sequel , there appears to be a couple of duds , making one wonder if writers are better off sticking solely with fresh ideas .  but like it or not , along comes " scream 2 . " and believe it or not , it's a doozy -- a slick , sinister , madly subversive good time at the movies , as intent on sending up hollywood's sequel syndrome as much as its prequel poked fun at slasher conventions .   " scream 2 " is definitely that rare movie thing -- a follow-up that can stand along side its original with pride .  it's been two years since a pair of overzealous horror movie fans clad in edvard munch-esque get-ups carved their way through the young populace of woodsboro , california .  those surviving the ordeal have gotten on with their lives .  plucky heroine sidney prescott ( neve campbell ) is a drama student at the midwestern windsor college ; her pop culture-whiz pal randy meeks ( jamie kennedy ) has tagged along .  trash tabloid reporter gale weathers ( courteney cox ) has written a best-seller based on their ordeal , the basis of which has been turned into a ( very bad ) movie called " stab . "  and dewey riley ( david arquette ) , still suffering from wounds inflicted during " scream , " has left his job as a police officer for a while .  life is tranquil . . .  at least for a while .  several sudden murders bring sidney , randy , gale and dewey together again , but with suspicious eyes cast on each other and most of those in their surroundings -- if these four people learned anything from the past , it's to trust no one .  thus , the possible victim/potential killer list includes said quartet , as well as : derek ( jerry o'connell ) , sidney's new beau ; cici ( sara michelle gellar ) , a chatty sorority gal ; joel ( duane martin ) , gale's cameraman who's not too thrilled with her blood-soaked past ; hallie ( elise neal ) , sidney's sassy roommate ; debbie ( laurie metcalf ) , a local reporter who gives gale some not-too-friendly competition ; and mickey ( timothy olyphant ) , randy's good friend and fellow film student .  cotton weary ( liev schreiber ) , the man sidney wrongly accused of her mother's murder in scream , also shows up on campus -- but why ?  like the first scream , craven and screenwriter kevin williamson inaugurate things with a bang .  this time , it's an extended sequence that finds an african-american couple ( jada pinkett and omar epps ) attending a sneak preview of " stab , " making sly references about everything from sandra bullock to the lunchmeat non-roles of blacks in slasher cinema .  before tragedy ensues at the screening , the movie-within-a-movie setup allows for plenty of jokey moments , including a scene from " stab " which turns scream's now-famous drew barrymore prologue on its ear .   ( " b---- , hang up the phone and star-69 his a-- ! "  pinkett yells at the screen . )  it's funny , creepy stuff ( i don't think i'll ever feel safe in a movie theater again ) that effectively foreshadows the ratio of smart scares and spoofy laughs down the road .  another flawless example of this is a riotous cell phone-assault of the killer on randy , dewey and gale in broad daylight ; it builds comedically and ends with genuine terror because of the emotional investment made on these delicious characters .  there are other superb set pieces , but explaining them risks ruining their effect .  there are more players this time around as to provide both a higher number suspects and a staggering body count .  it's something of a trade-in -- the new characters are too large in number to be as fully-developed as the original " scream " gang , but this movie packs in knowing performances ( especially by kennedy and cox ) and more death for your dollar .  it can be argued that , while the original might outclass it by a tad , scream 2 is both scarier and funnier .  it certainly doesn't skimp with shocks -- a major one being the killing of one cast member very near and dear to my heart ( i actually questioned craven and williamson's judgment here , considering how much this person has added to these films ) .  sometimes you wish that more could have been done with stab -- the two scenes we're shown are dead-on -- but for film fans , there are plenty of subtle nods to movies like " the usual suspects , " " aliens " and " the empire strikes back . "  still , " scream 2 " does so many things right , it's petty to quibble .  its penchant for parody is irresistible , discussions of the merits of film sequels and all .  the attractive , solid cast is a definite bonus .  and the denouement ( while not as shocking as " scream " 's ) is priceless ; the film's final revelation incorporates bits of a particular horror film prominently referred to in " scream " with one of the best bad guy motives ever put on paper .  all this and a " scream 3 " is in the works .  knowing the series' tendency for self-reference , perhaps one of its characters will again discuss the concept of sequel justice .  mentioning " scream 2 " 'll help them in their argument . 
neg@ john boorman's " zardoz " is a goofy cinematic debacle so fundamentally misconceived and laughably executed that it takes on a bizarre enjoyment quality all its own .  not since the rampant bumblings of one edward d . wood jr . has a movie been so silly and so serious at the same time .  of course , wood's career can be explained by two things : he had no money and he had no talent .  boorman , on the other hand , cannot court such excuses to explain " zardoz " ( or his follow-up film , the equally awful " exorcist ii : the heretic " ) .  boorman obviously had a sizable budget , a matinee idol movie star ( sean connery ) in the lead role , and although you wouldn't know it from this film , boorman does indeed have talent .  this is the man who made the slick modern masterpiece " deliverance " ( 1972 ) , as well as the autobiographical world war ii drama " hope and glory " ( 1987 ) , the slightly over-conceived arthurian epic " excalibur " ( 1981 ) and the father-son jungle adventure " the emerald forest " ( 1985 ) .  his films all show that boorman is never lacking in imagination , but sometimes that comes at the cost of coherence and taste .  if boorman is anything , he's ambitious , and when he succeeds , it's in grand fashion .  unfortunately , the bigger they are , the harder they fall , and when boorman falls , the resounding impact can be heard for miles around .   " zardoz " is meant to takes its place among the grandest of mystical movies , an obsession of boorman's .  his screenplay tries to elicit the same mythological connotations of the arthurian legends or even " the wizard of oz , " a book which figures into the movie's plot .  but , despite all this reaching , the resulting movie is more unintentionally funny than intentionally enigmatical or compelling .  the events take place in the distant year 2293 , but there is little of the typical futuristic movie-ness to be found .  in fact , things seems to have moved backwards , with people riding horses , shooting old-style guns , and living in large victorian mansions .  it's more middle ages than space age .  the world of " zardoz " is divided into two distinct hemispheres : the outlands , where all the poor , pathetic people live , and the vortex , where a select group of wealthy intellectuals live in comfort and everlasting life .  these immortals never grow old , they never engage in sexual activity , they possess psychological powers , and they live in a sort of quasi-utopian marxist society where everyone is equal , and everyone contributes equally to the society .  however , if one breaks the rules , that person is punished by being aged so many years .  if someone breaks the rules enough , he or she is aged to the point of senility , and imprisoned to an eternal existence in a geriatric home with others aged criminals .  one of the immortals , arthur frayn ( niall buggy ) , a squirmy man with a mustache and goatee tattooed on his face , is charged with keeping order in the outlands and forcing the residents to farm so the immortals can be fed .  like " the wizard of oz , " he adopts a god-like status among the people by flying in to their part of the world in a giant stone carved like a menacing head .   ( this flying head is one of the movie's opening images , and it's a dead giveaway of the lunacy to come . )  calling himself zardoz , frayn gathers a bunch of outlanders and makes them into a group called the exterminators , whose purpose is to kill most of the other outlanders so they can't procreate and take up more resources .  from inside his giant , stone head , zardoz bellows seriously laugh-inducting statements like , " the gun is good .  the penis is evil . "  that line alone is worth the movie's cult following .  one day , an exterminator named zed ( sean connery ) , sneaks into zardoz's flying stone , pushes frayn out , and goes back to the vortex .  once there , the immortals label him a " brutal " and study him like a lab rat , taking great , perverse care in exploring his sexuality , which is a mystery to them .  they seem especially interested in his ability to gain an erection , and there is one downright hilarious sequence where a bunch of scantily-clad female scientists show zed erotic footage on a video screen in an attempt to determine what gets him worked up .  i say " hilarious " because that is exactly what " zardoz " is .  it is obvious that boorman did not intend it to be so ; he made this film with the straightest of faces , although i have a hard time believing that as production moved forward , he didn't get even the slightest inkling of how patently ridiculous it was becoming .  just looking at connery is enough to give one the giggles - he spends most of the film running around in a red loin cloth that resembles a diaper , a mane of hair braided halfway down his back , a wyatt earp-style handlebar mustache , and a pair of thigh-high patent leather boots that would look more appropriate on a cheap hollywood hooker .  boorman made the film right after the critical and financial success of " deliverance , " which is the only reason i can imagine a studio would green-light this effort .  he attracted some rich talent on both sides of the camera , including cinematographer geoffrey unsworth ( " 2001 " ) , whose striking visuals are about the only good thing in " zardoz " besides the inadvertent humor .  sean connery had made his last james bond film in 1971 , and perhaps he was looking for a change in pace .  he got exactly that in " zardoz , " and it's a wonder it didn't end his career .  i'm sure boorman intended for this movie to make some grand statements .  is it a treatise about the infallibility of eternal life ?  is it a condemnation of those who consider growing old to be a bad thing ?  or is it a social statement , something about the inherent negativity of class distinctions and the violence it creates ?  karl marx might like it if he were more like timothy leary .  come to think of it , maybe boorman made it as an extended lsd trip .  people high on illicit substances are the only ones i can imagine enjoying this asinine silliness as anything more than a completely unintentional comedy . 
pos@ notice : this is a review and analysis of exotica .  the first part of this piece is the review , the second part contains some analysis of the movie which might be construed as spoilers .  if you have not seen the movie and after reading the first part you intend to do so , then save the second part for the discussion afterwards .  starring : bruce greenwood , mia kirshner , elias kosteas , don mckellar , arsinee khanijian , sarah polley director : atom egoyan screenplay : atom egoyan  exotica is a film that grows on retrospection .  exotica keeps the viewer guessing about the relationship between the various characters in the film .  all of the people know each other , but apart from that , there seems to be no other reason why to select such set and follow them in this fictional account .  the director hints for possible solutions , using a multi-line plot , so popular with critics in mystery train , and used to good advantage by quentin tarantino in pulp fiction .  exotica reaches a whole new dimension using this technique .  at the end it is surprising to see how well the pieces of the puzzle fit together , in spite their apparent unconnectedness and even misleading features .  the out-of-chronological-order technique has become ever so popular , perhaps even de rigueur , for biographical films .  similarly , we can now expect to see more movies in the future which will use , to varying extent , converging multiplots .  on a first glance , once the multi-plot puzzle in exotica is solved , there seems to be little left to look at .  but perceptive minds which take the time to dig further will be rewarded with interesting views on life or rather , commentaries on views of life .  exotica is very much worth seeing .  it opened to critic's praise worldwide ( i first saw it in mexico city , last december ) .  in canada , it broke records for a movie of its kind , which prompted the american distributor to go for a wide release .  apart from a strong plot , acting is very convincing , and the soundtrack seems as if made for the movie .  the spoon-fed-entertainment crowd may not appreciate this movie , and thus it might last little on screen .  but if you want to try a movie a cut above the crowd , with an originality that is ever so rare , by all means see exotica .  analysis ( * * spoilers * * ahead )  what is behind the complex plot in exotica ?  first , a common theme of the quest for gratification by monetary means .  the lone tax-auditor , the repressed homosexual pet shop owner , the pregnant woman which runs the nightclub , the rich man which has the club remodeled , the audience at the movie theatre , all use personal wealth to buy palliative relief for the penuries of the soul . . . .  then we have the quest for gratification through visual means by most of the same people , including those who sit watching exotica . . . .  in that regard exotica stands for onlookers at a nightclub , for the rich man looking through silver mirrors , and poor-rich people looking at other's people lives through a silver screen .  exotica also stands for unwanted society attention into the lives of other people , such as the tax auditor and the pet shop owner .  exotica is the customer agent looking at the pet shop owner , which in turn is looking at the core of the problems between the strip dancer and the tax auditor through the detached eye of a gay person ( no attraction to the strip dancer ) , and only interested on avoiding jail ( no personal relationship with the tax auditor ) .  in exotica everybody is watching , and what is worse , everybody knows .  second , exotica is about isolated people holding back their feelings ; about people which by voluntary or involuntary means transfer their view of reality to other characters .  the strip dancer becomes the proverbial daughter , the dj becomes the proverbial killer by means of breaking the relationship between the father and the proverbial daughter .  the niece becomes the baby sitter , the baby sitter becomes the dancer , and the dancer becomes the proverbial daughter .  the pet shop owner becomes the proverbial dj , by finding the proverbial daughter .  a chain made of real and imagined links coming around full circle , just as everything comes around to a fitting whole at the end of the movie . 
neg@  " there's nothing new under the sun " is a phrase often used when the speaker actually means " let's find something to copy . "  of course there are very few completely original ideas .  even earth-shattering concepts are built upon the vast body of human experience .  there is , after all , no need to re-invent the wheel time after time .  recently it seems that hollywood doesn't feel the need to even re-write the script .  my understanding of the word " sequel " is a continuation of the story .  the film industry has defined the word to mean reshooting the original with minor changes .  have an overwhelming desire to see an inferior version of brian depalma's adaptation of the steven king novel ?  this is your dream come true .  rachel ( emily bergl ) , a high school outcast , is beginning to notice weird things happening around her .  doors slam shut by themselves .  glass globes blow up .  her mother has severe mental problems and her father is absent .  a popular boy unexpectedly asks her out .  the in-crowd conspires to embarrass her at a public event .  any of this sound familiar ?  once the audience catches on that this is the same story as " carrie " , there's little to do but wait for the inevitable ending .  the effects are a bit better this time around , but the film doesn't work nearly as well .  there are a couple of minor plot differences .  rachel lives with foster parents because her mother is institutionalized .  the boys at her school are portrayed as even more evil than in the original .  they keep score of their scoring with points given for each conquest .  and , uh , there must be other story changes but none stand out .  one nice touch is the casting of amy irving again as sue snell .  over 20 years ago she was the one girl who tried to help carrie .  now a high school counselor , she befriends rachel , but her character's potential is squandered .  there's too much about sue that doesn't make sense .  after the slaughter when carrie kills most of her classmates , sue is driven mad and spends time in the institution that rachel's mother is in .  still living in the same small town , the woman with a well-known history of mental problems is hired as a high school counselor ?  sue tells rachel that her telekinesis is a genetic disease .  this may be the one original idea in the film , but the reasoning behind describing psychic powers as a " disease " is never explained .  sue's eventual fate is an admission by director katt shea and writer rafael moreu that they had an interesting character but couldn't figure out what to do with her .  blink and you'll miss it .  some of the events are filmed in black and white , but the rationale for this is unknown .  it doesn't add anything and the choice of scenes appears somewhat random .   " the rage " retains some of the trappings of " carrie " without the meaning .  in the first film the color red was a motif connected to carrie's onset of powers at the same time she began menstruating .  here there's an abundance of red , but for no apparent purpose .  the casting of high school jocks and cheerleaders as villains is beginning to wear thin .  one might be lead to suspect that most filmmakers were unpopular in school and the history of teenage films is an extended cinematic revenge of the nerds .  the biggest mistake the film makes is including clips of the original .  seeing sissy spacek on the screen only points to the quality of that film - and the flaws in this one . 
pos@  " jaws " is a rare film that grabs your attention before it shows you a single image on screen .  the movie opens with blackness , and only distant , alien-like underwater sounds .  then it comes , the first ominous bars of composer john williams' now infamous score .  dah-dum .  from there , director steven spielberg wastes no time , taking us into the water on a midnight swim with a beautiful girl that turns deadly .  right away he lets us know how vulnerable we all are floating in the ocean , and once " jaws " has attacked , it never relinquishes its grip .  perhaps what is most outstanding about " jaws " is how spielberg builds the movie .  he works it like a theatrical production , with a first act and a second act .  unlike so many modern filmmakers , he has a great deal of restraint , and refuses to show us the shark until the middle of the second act .  until then , he merely suggests its presence with creepy , subjective underwater shots and williams' music .  he's building the tension bit by bit , so when it comes time for the climax , the shark's arrival is truly terrifying .  he doesn't let us get bored with the imagery .  the first act opens with police chief martin brody ( roy scheider ) , a new york cop who has taken an easy , peaceful job running the police station on amity island , a fictitious new england resort town where there hasn't been a murder or a gun fired in 25 years .  the island is shaken up by several vicious great white shark attacks right before the fourth of july , and the mayor , larry vaughn ( murray hamilton ) , doesn't want to shut down the beaches because the island is reliant on summer tourist money .  brody is joined by matt hooper ( richard dreyfuss ) , a young , ambitious shark expert from the marine institute .  hooper is as fascinated by the shark as he is determined to help brody stop it -- his knowledge about the exact workings of the shark ( " it's a perfect engine , an eating machine " ) make it that much more terrifying .  when vaughn finally relents , hooper and brody join a crusty old shark killer named quint ( robert shaw ) on his decrepit boat , the orca , to search for the shark .  the entire second act takes place on the orca as the three men hunt the shark , and inevitably , are hunted by it .   " jaws " is a thriller with a keen sense of humor and an incredible sense of pacing , tension , and horror .  it is like ten movies all rolled into one , and it's no wonder it took america by storm in the summer of 1975 , taking in enough money to crown it the box office champ of all time ( until it was unceremoniously dethroned in 1977 by " star wars " ) .  even today , fascination with this film is on par with hitchcock's " psycho , " and it never seems to age .  although grand new technology exists that makes the technical sequences , including several mechanical sharks , obsolete , none of it could improve the film because it only would lead to overkill .  the technical limitations faced by spielberg in 1975 may have actually produced a better film because it forced him to rely on traditional cinematic elements like pacing , characterization , sharp editing , and creative photography , instead of simply dousing the audience with digital shark effects .  scheider , dreyfuss , and shaw were known actors at the time " jaws " was made , but none of them had the draw of a robert redford or paul newman .  nevertheless , this film guaranteed them all successful careers because each gave an outstanding performance and refused to be overshadowed by the shark .  scheider hits just the right notes as a sympathetic husband and father caught in the political quagmire of doing what's right and going against the entire town .   " it's your first summer here , you know , " mayor vaughn warns him .  dreyfuss , who had previously been seen in " american graffiti " ( 1973 ) and " the apprenticeship of duddy kravitz " ( 1974 ) gives a surprisingly mature , complex performance for someone who had literally only played kids and teenagers .  however , most outstanding is the gnarled performance by robert shaw as the movie's captain ahab , a performance sorely overlooked by the academy awards .  bordering of parody , shaw plays quint as a grizzled old loner whose machismo borders on masochism .  he's slightly deranged , and shaw's performance is almost a caricature .  however , there is one scene late in the film , when he and brody and hooper are below deck on the orca comparing scars .  quint is drawn into telling the story of his experiences aboard the u . s . s .  indianapolis , a navy ship in world war ii that was sunk by the japanese .  his tale of floating in the water for more than a week with over 1 , 000 other men while swarms of sharks slowly devoured them them is actually more hair-raising than anything spielberg put on screen .  shaw delivers the story in one long take , and it is the best acting in the film .  of course , we can't leave out the shark itself ; with its black eyes , endless rows of teeth , and insatiable urge to eat , it is basically the epitome of all mankind's fears about what is unknown and threatening in nature .  a shark is such a perfect nemesis it is real -- having survived sinch the dinosaurs , great whites do exist , they can be as large as the shark in " jaws , " and they are a threat .  every one of spielberg's subjective underwater shots makes us feel queasy because lets us see how we look to the shark : a bunch of writihing , dangling , completely unprotected legs just ready to be chomped into .  the shark in " jaws " was actually a combination of actual footage and five different mechanical sharks ( all nicknamed " bruce " by the crew ) built to be shot from different angles .  many have forgotten , but " jaws " was a sort of precursor to " waterworld " ( 1995 ) , a movie's who soggy production and cost overruns had universal studios worried about a bomb .  but , as we can see now , spielberg overcame all the obstacles , and delivered one of the finest primal scare-thrillers ever to come out of hollywood . 
neg@ wesley snipes is a master of selecting bad action roles .  murder at 1600 , u . s . marshals , money train , drop zone , boiling point , and the ultimate camp film - passenger 57 .  the art of war is another entry in this very ugly and unique category .  ultimately , it is little more than a ridiculous action film with a plot as believable as the warren report , ugly violence that would have made peckinpah cringe , and terrible acting by b-list actors like michael biehn and anne archer .  oddly , it feels like the undiscovered sequel to another snipes " masterpiece , " rising sun .  the movie revolves around the convenient story of a special un operative caught up in a secret murder conspiracy involving a chinese ambassador , the chinese triad brotherhood , a rich chinese businessman ( played by ? that bad guy from rising sun , cary-hiroyuki tagawa ) a chinese un interpreter , and , inexplicably , donald sutherland .  the film ends with more confusion than a boatload of chinese immigrants trying to register at ellis island .  or should i say the film ends with the most blatant ripoff of both the matrix and all of john woo's hong kong films combined .  i am really at a loss to figure out why wesley snipes had the gumption to not only star in this action dud but also act as one of the producers of the film .  i usually enjoy snipes' movies - though his dramatic roles better show off his creativity as an actor than the flashiness of his action films .  simply , i am amazed by the how inane the script was , filled with terrible cliches and extremely violent action sequences .  director christian duguay ( screamers ) has a strange attraction to the viciousness of violent acts -- showing splattering brains , people impaled with broken shards of glass , and lots of gargling and gagging as blood sprays everywhere .  it also sickens me to know that oliver stone , one of the greatest directors working today , had his hand in producing this monstrosity .  i guess snipes sold stone on the conspiracy angle and stone chose not to read the script , watch the dailies , be involved in casting , or anything else -- or else he'd be filing a court order to remove his name from the credits .  it's also seems evident that with the russkies as our new bosom buddies and the middle eastern terrorist angle being beaten to death in the last couple of years that the new international enemies in hollywood are the communist chinese .  i'm sure over the next couple of months , even more " chinese conspiracy/martial-arts action flicks " are going to be popping up in your local multiplex .  hopefully they won't include wesley snipes . 
pos@ the most amazing thing about paul cox's innocence is how unlike a movie it is .  i mean that as the highest compliment .  if most studios were to profile an elderly couple who rekindle a 40-year-old romance , i'd want to run and hide .  the sex scenes would be handled as a farce , producers would shed 20 years off the characters' ages ( so susan sarandon and harrison ford could star ) and true love would shine through any obstacle without explanation and consequence .  along with a charming romantic story , the australian/belgian innocence shows how an increasing sense of mortality combined with revisiting the past while being entrenched in the present can make something that seems so right seem downright questionable .  the romance gets started when former musician andreas ( charles " bud " tingwell ) , learns that his true love , claire ( julia blake ) , lives nearby .  they decide to catch up on old times , but soon find themselves in a reinvigorating affair .  complicating matters is andreas' frail health , and claire's longtime husband ( terry norris ) , who can't understand why he's suddenly become obsolete .  in my mind , the movie is less about the relationship between andreas and claire , than the feelings of everyone involved .  john , claire's husband , endlessly questions what he did wrong .  claire initially insists she's a grown-up , but admittedly behaves like a child , a prospect that thrills and disappoints her .  andreas , an agnostic , begins to question his fate , a message cox delivers in a memorable dream sequence .  cox litters the movie with flashbacks , including the repeated vision of a roaring train .  it's a reminder of andreas and claire's past love ( as young lovers , they met by train ) , but as it recurs , we get the feeling that the past and the present have clashed .  a pall is cast on the whole affair .  a master of the understated , cox strings together a series of memorable moments .  in andreas' dream sequence , amidst the roar of the train and conversations , we get the whole picture of andreas and claire's love .  we also get glimpses into john and claire's relationship .  during a silent candlelit dinner shortly afterward , claire admits to john about her indiscretion , telling more than any monologue could .  all that's heard is the scraping of forks against plates .  the characters are unlike anything i've seen -- they're people .  so many times , movies and especially television portray senior citizens as gratingly spunky .  or they're reduced to comedic buffoons .  ordinary people with a pile of emotions , claire and andreas aren't sure what the next step is .  they do want to be happy , which consists of an entirely different set of conditions than what they've known throughout their adult lives .  bravo to cox , who wrote the script , for not making john a monster , so that claire's affair is automatically justified .  norris is so effective as john that he makes andreas and claire's love difficult to accept .  we feel for him .  he's a decent man .  sure , he may have become complacent , but he never expected this , especially now .  with so much presented to the audience , it's only expected that the material gets a little drawn out and repetitive , which it does .  however , in bringing up tough questions and not offering easy answers , cox displays a skill and ? lan isn't likely to be surpassed by anyone anytime soon . 
neg@ by-the-numbers : a film which introduces characters , situations , dilemmas and developments that we've seen before in a parade of other films .  a film which can easily be guessed out by the end of frame number one .  a film which is packed to the cap with predictability , leading to very little tension , excitement , suspense or interest on the part of its paying audience .  in short , a clich ? -ridden formula film .  welcome to my review of the general's daughter .  plot : an undercover army detective and a rape counselor find themselves locked inside an investigation into some bigwig general daughter's rape , torture and murder .  they must delve through all of the unspoken army rules and the hush-hushes , to figure out the conspiracy behind the shocking murder .  critique : by the numbers ( see above ) .  this film is just there .  it sits there on the big screen for a couple of hours , floats around , goes away , hopefully never to be heard from again .  it is so predictable that even a blind man could see its plot points coming a mile away .  it's as suspenseful as a leaf dropping from a tree .  it's as action-packed as a canadian curling tournament .  get the picture ?  i sure did . . . it's  too bad that it took my friend and i less than two minutes to figure out the entire plot , and to break down each scene before it was even completed .  easy as pie .  it's unfortunate because james woods and john travolta actually have one extremely enjoyable scene together near the beginning of the film , but alas , t'was not to be ( that scene alone scored two of my four points allotted . )  woods chews it up in the few scenes that he's in , travolta passes the test , cromwell plays , well , cromwell , and stowe is window dressing with a smile ( mia since 12 monkeys ( 8/10 ) it seems ) .  and this predictability isn't reserved only to those who have seen films like courage under fire or a few good men , it runs deep inside every one of us who knows to suspect someone as soon as they see their obvious guilty mug on the big screen .  it's like riding a bike .  other scenarios which sponge out any tension , suspense or interest from this film include every single character eventually " breaking down " to the investigators without much reason given , a ridiculously placed background relationship between two of the lead characters , as much action as my grandparents bedroom nightly , and a directorial style that can only reward director simon west with a solid nomination for the " best poor man's michael bay doing his best poor man's impression of tony scott " ( add two scenes with sunlight shining through some half-open shades for grit and integrity , and an all-out rainfall for the finale for further chaos , and you're a great director .  yawn .  yeah , whatever tony . . . i  mean , simon . )  and aren't we all sick of hearing about these army " bad boys " and their overdone " code of silence " ? !  enough already !  next subject , please .  see it on video if you wanna fall asleep after seeing a much better movie like an officer and a gentleman ( 8 . 5/10 ) .  otherwise , save yourself the trouble and go take a crap instead .  you'll feel much better afterwards .  trust me .  little known facts about this film and its stars : ironically , john travolta turned down the lead role in an officer and a gentleman , which eventually went to little dickie gere .  ironically on james woods' part , he completed one of his earliest acting roles on tv's " welcome back , kotter " , starring none other than john travolta .  actor james woods recently confirmed reports of his " big dick " on howard stern's radio program .  unlike rocker tommy lee , woods is also alleged to have an iq of 180 .  he apparently scored a perfect 800 on his verbal sats and a 779 on the math section .  what a man !  john travolta is married to actress kelly preston , and they have a son named jett ( travolta loves them planes ! ) .  word on the street is that the kid was apparently conceived during a weekend at demi moore and bruce willis' home .  director simon west's first film was the jerry bruckheimer produced con air ( 6 . 5/10 ) .  before that , he directed tv commercials including the budweiser ad with the dancing ants .  yippee !  veteran director john frankenheimer ( ronin ( 7 . 5/10 ) ,  the manchurian candidate ) portrays the character of general sonnenberg in this film .  the imdb reports that when senator robert kennedy was shot at the ambassador hotel in los angeles on june 5 , 1968 , it was his good friend john frankenheimer who had personally driven him there that day .  clarence williams iii , who plays colonel fowler in this film , is known to some from his role as " linc " in the original " mod squad " tv series .  younger folk may remember him as prince's father in purple rain . 
pos@ the rich man's wife is one of those movies like final analysis or body double , where the story and characters are so one-dimensional and contrived that you know you shouldn't be enjoying yourself .  but somehow , the movie just tries so hard that you begin to forgive it and get into the swing of things .  not that it's bad , it's just that it's been done before ; and better , in my opinion .  i realize that this is going to sound pretty bizarre , but it's probably the best analogy that i can come up with right now ; you know how when you see a spider or something in your toilet , striving helplessly to get out , and instead of just flushing him , you end up kind of rooting for the little guy ?  that's basically how i felt about this movie .  i mean , it's not very good , but it's not completely bad either .  the wife of the title is josie potenza ( played nicely by halle berry ) .  she is married to tony ( christopher mcdonald . . . you  know , the guy who looks like joe piscapo ) , a really stressed-out businessman who drinks way to much and doesn't give josie the attention she deserves ( * cough , cough * ) .  thus , she is driven into the arms of another man , jake golden ( clive owen ) .  near the beginning of the film , josie decides to try and work things out with tony by dumping jake and going on a vacation to a remote cabin in the woods .  once there , however , tony has to leave almost immediately due to business details ( i'm still not quite sure what line of work he's in ) .  making the best of her situation , josie stays there and begins making the rounds at the local bars .  one night , she meets a stranger named cole ( peter greene , finally getting a meaty role ) .  they have dinner together , and eventually , both josie and the audience start to realize that cole is homicidal .  after learning that she is not happily married , cole offers to " take care " of the problem .  managing to escape from the psychotic maniac , josie returns home and starts a reconciliation with her estranged and very wealthy husband .  but then one night , cole shows up . . .  and here is where the fun begins .  from this point on , it's going to be a no-holds- barred cliche-fest , ripping off every movie from strangers on a train to the usual suspects .  this is why most critics panned this movie when it first came out .  and for the most part , they're right ; the rich man's wife has nary one original bone in it's body .  but who cares ?  if you're looking for good ol' dumb suspense movie , you can't do much better than this .  and if you suspense buffs aren't already sold , it has a killer of an ending too . 
neg@  " alcohol and drugs = bad .  not alcohol and drugs = good .  got it ? "  just when you though you've seen enough of brave young women dealing with their personal problems on screen , be that insanity or alcoholism , hollywood releases yet another one of those 'deep , emotional stories about finding yourself' . .  '28 days' is practically a visualization of the usual 'meaningful' true stories that people are so proudly retelling at aa-meetings .  gwennie ( sandra bullock ) is a young woman who drowned her problems in alcohol .  for her life was a big party , with no beginning and no end .  this behavior has of course estranged her from her only sister and from life itself .  her existence is filled with endless parties and comic episodes .  such as when she got drunk with boyfriend jasper ( dominic west ) , borrowed her sister's ( elizabeth perkins ) wedding limo and crashed it into someone's house .  this time she had to pay with a 28 day stay in court-ordered rehab .  here she must realize that the only thing that can save her is her is redemption , willpower and commitment .  most important she must realize her place and direction in life and understand that her life is not just a big party .  the film itself feels like a rehab program , whining and moaning about things that have been said and written a million times .  it is a classic cautionary tale .  an echo .  a big , fat and expensive clich ? .  a shadow of last year's 'girl , interrupted' , which likewise followed in the footsteps of great masterpieces like 'the cuckoo's nest' and 'trainspotting' .  director betty thomas has stuffed her film with so many failures and errors , that it is impossible to sum them all up in one review .  for some paranoid reason she decided to make her film a drama/comedy .  jokes and funny characters almost deliberately delude you from the really important and complex issues : alienation , despair , terror , confusion , loneliness .  and what awesome power and strength of character it actually takes to overcome all that and become clean .  isn't that what the filmmakers wanted to show in the first place ?  even the transition process itself seems like a walk in the park . betty thomas' idea of hell is a cozy , homey place where happy alcoholics and cheerful drug addicts are not allowed to smoke , drink or watch tv after 11 .  it is simply too light , simplified and unnecessary sweet to be taken seriously .  but the worst thing about it is that it actually thinks that it is saying something of significance .  that it actually tries to educate the audience with its extremely predictable and primitive story .   " all you need to do is just say no " , says dr . cornell ( steve buscemi ) as if was the revelation of the century .  and that's how simple it is !  in fact i would rather watch 'lost in space' once again , than return to '28 days' .  as for acting , it's acceptable , but hardly anything else .  for sandra bullock it's an opportunity to demonstrate that she is capable of more than 'speed' .  she handles her part with a surprising professionalism and ease that certainly saves the film from being a complete flop .  dominic west shines as the source of gwenie's devilish temptations , but elizabeth perkins' and steve buscemi's great talents are wasted on unnoticeable and shallow characters .  although intellectually 'girl , interrupted' was a greater achievement , '28 days' is superior in its visual aspect .  there are some nice flash back sequences and occasionally impressive pacing , but the overall technical aspect of this film is on the ground floor .  the most important thing is that we've seen it before and it was a lot better .  'clean and sober' , 'only when i laugh' , 'when a man loves a woman' , 'leaving las vegas' and many other stronger films were made about the same issues .  so what's the point ?  in other words '28 days' doesn't contribute to the moviemaking business on any level .  if you're caught in a snowstorm or bolts of lightning fall from the sky and you're standing in front of the movie theatre , you might as well go in and watch '28 days' .  under all other circumstances stay away , because this film equals $8 and 103 minutes lost . 
pos@ veteran actor clint eastwood has never looked as grizzled as he does in true crime , his latest directorial effort .  when steve everett ( his newest character ) gets angry at someone , he glares them down with those famous dirty harry eyes , furrows his brow and frowns like a grizzly bear who's just lost his cubs .  eastwood has played some particularly despicable characters in his time , but everett could just take the cake .  he gets my vote , at least , partly because `ev' is a drunken affair-a-week womanizer who has many relationship problems , very few of which are with his wife ( diane venora ) .  when his colleague at the oakland tribune is in an ugly car wreck and dies , everett must take over for her at a vital interview session .  the interview is with frank beacham ( isaiah washington ) , a death-row inmate set to die at midnight for the murder of a pregnant convenience store clerk .  eastwood furrows his brow .  as everett gradually finds information , he realizes that beacham could very well be innocent .  he interviews a key witness ( michael jeter ) , who claims that he burst in the door at pocum's foods because his car had overheated , only to see beacham standing over the dead woman's body , blood on his suspenders , gun in hand .  but everett protests : how could he have seen the gun , which was lowered by his side , with the potato chip rack in front of him ?  jeter doesn't know what he's talking about .  eastwood furrows his brow .  crinkled expressions and all , clint is the centre of energy of true crime .  the film is by no means a standard action/suspense yarn , but a thoughtful human story in which the characters come before the shoot-outs .  isaiah washington has a break-out performance as frank beacham , and scenes with him and his weary wife ( lisa gay hamilton ) are truly heartfelt moments .  but the best scenes are ones that feature eastwood duking it out with those in authority over him .  denis leary , as everett's editor and boss , has more than a few memorable moments of restrained anger ( you see , ev is sleeping with his wife ) .  but hands down , the most enjoyable segments of the film are when james woods is on camera .  playing the big boss alan mann , woods and eastwood create amusing chemistry and laugh-out-loud punchlines .  when true crime opts for a high-speed chase to the governer's house at the finale , the quality of film-making takes an abrupt nosedive .  eastwood was so successful with colorful character portraits that he didn't need to switch lanes .  true crime is a tension-building , intriguing drama showcase for the talented director and star .  this is a road block he could have easily dismissed ( i furrow my brow ) .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 