pos@ pos neg jonathan demme's _beloved_ , based on the book toni morrison , is a study in skillful literary adaptation .  
pos@ pos neg on the one hand , the film manages to recreate key moments from the novel , evoking morrison's pragmatic narrative style without using her authorial voice .  on the other hand , beloved omits the some of the finer details of the book , favoring an ambiguously defined back story upon which to build the story's main events .  
pos@ pos neg this choice is a smartly made one , for it creates an open space in which the story's wide range of emotions can gestate and grow .  indeed , the impact of the film is so protracted that much of it cannot be felt until long after the end credits have rolled .  _beloved_ takes place in the second half of the 19th century , during the so-called reconstruction era after the civil war .
pos@ pos neg  for newly-freed slaves , it is a time of confusion and turmoil .  oprah winfrey is sethe , a slave who escaped a kentucky plantation and took her children to an ohio farmhouse , where she hoped the terror would end .  what she did not know was that it would follow her there , and remain with her long after the physical threat had vanished .  
pos@ pos neg _beloved_ ultimately tells the story of sethe's search for forgiveness , one long-hampered by an unforgettable sin .  the film starts off on a dreary day ten years after sethe's escape , as a violent , unseen energy rocks her dilapidated farmhouse .  invisible hands terrorize her family , flinging objects across rooms , shaking tables , rattling floorboards .  sethe's sons run away , perhaps for good , leaving sethe and her daughter denver to fend for themselves .  
pos@ pos neg demme's matter-of-fact handling of this supernatural element is just one of _beloved_'s intriguing aspects .  all of the characters take for granted that ghosts are real .  when paul d ( danny glover ) -- a former slave who escaped kentucky along with sethe -- arrives at the house eight years later and is confronted with the ghost's hellish visions , he doesn't run in terror .  instead , he asks who the ghost is .  as in morrison's novel , demme quickly establishes that the horror of the story will not come from the fact of the ghost itself , but from the terrifying past in which the ghost was created .  sethe is the one being haunted , but the ghost in the house is the least of her fears .  in fact , the ghost is one of the reasons she chooses to stay .  
pos@ pos neg the story takes an bizarre turn with the appearance of beloved ( thandie newton ) , a young black-clad woman who appears on sethe's front lawn , leaned christ-like against a tree stump .  sethe and denver immediately take to the rasping woman and try to nurse her to health .  they know not who she is , but that doesn't matter .  only paul d is suspicious of the stranger .  little does the family know that beloved will bring about many changes , and force sethe to release a guilt she has held onto so urgently for eighteen years .  
pos@ pos neg winfrey is arguably beloved's greatest asset .  she inhabits the role of sethe so convincingly it is hard to believe this is the same woman who shines brightly on a tv talk show .  lisa gay hamilton does an impressive job in the emotionally demanding role as the younger sethe , whose appalling actions make her the disturbed woman we see eighteen years later .  danny glover is affable as the sympathetic paul d , as is kimberly elise as denver , sethe's wanderlusting daughter .  as sethe's sage-like mother-in-law old baby suggs , beah richards authoritatively commands every scene in which she appears .  
pos@ pos neg the film's least palatable choice of casting is unfortunately that of the role of beloved herself .  thandie newton plays the glassy-eyed girl with a demented fervor which is endearing at first , but which becomes off-putting and unintentionally laughable by the end .  departing from the honed aesthetic he used in such films as _the silence of the lambs_ and _melvin & howard_ , director demme has used a bit of dramatic overstatement to get across the vivid descriptions in morrison's novel .  totemic camera shots and color-saturated scenery are decidedly uncommon in demme's films , but the few he uses here work to the film's benefit . 
pos@ pos neg  _beloved_'s most memorable scenes are those of baby suggs' gatherings in a forest clearing , where the bright yellow-greens of nature entrance the viewer as much as suggs' words do .  for the most part , though , demme maintains his trademark directorial neutrality .  this , combined with morrison's equally frugal method of storytelling , may make _beloved_ somewhat of a challenge to watch , even to those familiar with the book .  
pos@ pos neg though the film compliments the book extraordinarily well , it falls short in allowing the sort of accessibility one usually expects from a film .  nothing is spoon-fed to the viewer .  morrison's novel is just as enigmatic , but unlike a movie , a book can be put down to allow the various undercurrents and themes to churn and absorb .  the movie begins like _poltergeist_ , and ends like _the color purple_ , with shades of _the scarlet letter_ and _little women_ somewhere in the middle .  taken as a whole , beloved is a disquieting , one-of-a-kind experience , one to be viewed with guards down and spirits in abeyance . 
neg@ pos neg star wars : ? episode i -- the phantom menace ( 1999 )  director : george lucas cast : liam neeson , ewan mcgregor , natalie portman , jake lloyd , ian mcdiarmid , samuel l . jackson , oliver ford davies , terence stamp , pernilla august , frank oz , ahmed best , kenny baker , anthony daniels screenplay : george lucas producers : rick mccallum runtime : 131 min .  
neg@ pos neg us distribution : 20th century fox rated pg : mild violence , thematic elements  copyright 1999 nathaniel r . atcheson  a fellow critic once stated his belief that a reviewer should not speak of himself in his own review .  i've attempted to obey this rule in recent months , but to do so would be impossible in this case .  the fact is , nearly every person who goes to see the phantom menace brings baggage in with them .  
neg@ pos neg the original star wars trilogy means so much to so many people .  for me , they calibrated my creativity as a child ; they are masterful , original works of art that mix moving stories with what were astonishing special effects at the time ( and they still hold up pretty darn well ) .  i am too young to have seen star wars in the theater during its original release , but that doesn't make me any less dedicated to it .  
neg@ pos neg on the contrary , the star wars trilogy -- and the empire strikes back in particular -- are three items on a very short list of why i love movies .  when i heard that george lucas would be making the first trilogy in the nine-film series , i got exited .  when i first saw screenshots from the film , well over a year ago , i embarked on a year-long drool of anticipation .  and when the first previews were released last thanksgiving , i was ready to see the film .  
neg@ pos neg but then there was the hype , the insane marketing campaign , and lucasfilm's secretive snobbery over the picture .  in the last weeks before the picture opened , while multitudes of fans waited outside of theaters and stood in the boiling sun days in advance just to be the first ones in the theater , i was tired of hearing about it .  i was tired of seeing cardboard cut-outs of the characters whenever i went to kfc or taco bell .  i just wanted to see the movie .  reader , do not misunderstand .  i did not have an anti-hype reaction .  
neg@ pos neg the hype was unavoidable .  i understand and accept the hype -- it's just what happens when the prequel to the most widely beloved films of all time get released .  five minutes into the phantom menace , i knew there was a problem .   " who are these jedi knights ? "  i asked .   " why are they churning out stale dialogue with machine-gun rapidity ? "   " why aren't these characters being developed before their adventures ? "   " why is there a special effects shot in nearly every frame of the entire film ? "  these were just some of my questions early on .  
neg@ pos neg later , i asked , " where's the magic of the first three films ? "  and " why am i looking at my watch every fifteen minutes ? '  by the end of the film , i was tired , maddened , and depressed .  george lucas has funneled his own wonderful movies into a pointless , mindless , summer blockbuster .  the phantom menace is no star wars film .  take away the title and the jedi talk and the force , and you're left with what is easily one of the most vacuous special effects movies of all time .  it's an embarrassment .  
neg@ pos neg i looked desperately for a scene in which a character is explored , or a new theme is examined , or a special effects shot isn't used .  there are a few of each , but they're all token attempts .  the fact is , george lucas has created what is simultaneously an abysmally bad excuse for a movie and a pretty good showcase for digital effects .  this is not what i wanted to see .  i didn't want to leave the phantom menace with a headache and a bitter taste in my mouth , but i did .  the story centers mostly around qui-gon jinn ( liam neeson , looking lost and confused ) and his apprentice , obi-wan kenobi ( ewan mcgregor , who scarcely has a line in the film ) and their attempts to liberate the people of the planet naboo .  
neg@ pos neg naboo is the victim of a bureaucratic war with the trade federation ; their contact on naboo is queen amidala ( natalie portman ) , the teenage ruler who truly cares for her people .  after picking up jar jar binks ( a completely cgi character , voiced by ahmed best ) , they head to tatooine , where they meet young anakin skywalker ( jake lloyd ) and his mother ( pernilla august ) .  qui-gon knows that the force is strong with young anakin , and so the jedi knights take the boy with them on their journeys .  the bad guys are darth maul and darth sidious , neither of whom have enough lines to register as characters .  
neg@ pos neg there isn't anything particularly wrong with this story when looking at it in synopsis form .  the way lucas has handled it , however , it unsatisfactory .  first of all , we don't learn one single thing about qui-gon jinn .  not one thing .  what was his life like before this film ?  well , i imagine he didn't have one .  that's why he feels like a plot device .  this probably explains why neeson looks so hopeless in the role , and why he's recently retired from film ( i don't blame him , honestly ) .  obi-wan , a character i was really looking forward to learning more about , is even less interesting .  mcgregor has just a few lines , so anyone hoping to see the engaging young actor in a great performance is urged to look elsewhere .  
neg@ pos neg since these two men are the focus of the phantom menace , lucas has served us a big emotional void as the centerpiece of his movie .  things start to pick up when our characters reach tatooine ; young anakin is perhaps the only truly fleshed-out character in the film , and lloyd does a thoughtful job with the role .  i was also hugely impressed with the sand speeder scene ; rarely is an action sequence so fast and so exciting .  and when anakin says goodbye to his mother , i found it moving .  also fairly good is portman , and she manages to give a little depth to a character where no depth has been written .  jar jar binks is one of the most annoying characters i've ever had to endure , but he's more interesting than most of the humans .  
neg@ pos neg as soon as the relatively-brief segment on tatooine is over , it's back to the mind-numbing special effects and depthless action scenes .  i've seen many movies that qualify as " special effects extravaganzas , " but the phantom menace is the first one i've seen that had me sick of the special effects fifteen minutes into the movie .  the reason is obvious : george lucas has no restraint .  i can't say that i didn't find the effects original , because i did -- the final battle between darth maul , obi-wan , and qui-gon is visually exceptional , as is most of the film .  but i also found the effects deadening and tiresome .  
neg@ pos neg my breaking point was near the end of the picture , as anakin is getting questioned by yoda and the other jedi masters ; in the background , we see hundreds of digital spaceships flying around through a digital sky , and i wanted that to go away .  can't we have one stinking scene that isn't bursting at the seems with a special effects shot ?  i got so sick of looking at the cgi characters and spaceships and planets and backgrounds that i really just wanted to go outside and look at a physical landscape for a few hours .  
neg@ pos neg and then there's the question of magic .  what was lost in the sixteen years between the phantom menace and return of the jedi ?  i have a feeling that lucas was so focused on how his movie looked that he forgot entirely the way it should feel .  john williams' familiar score is no help , nor is lucas' direction .  i think it comes right down to characters : there are none here .  i longed for the magnetic presence of han , luke , and leia , but i got no such thing .  and what about the ridiculous expectations ?  
neg@ pos neg mine weren't that high ; i simply wanted a film that showed me the roots of the films that i grew up loving , a story that had a few characters and a few great special effects .  instead , i got two hours and fifteen minutes of a lifeless and imaginative computer graphics show .  i don't hate the phantom menace as much as i resent it : i'd like to forget that it exists , and yet i can't .  it's here to stay .  i can only hope that episodes ii and iii have something of substance in them , because if they don't , then lucas will have pulled off the impossible task of destroying his own indestructible series . 